ranaviru sewa authority .
annual report 2011 .
no301  4th floor .
tbjayah mawatha .
colombo 10 .
contents .
01 nation’s gratitude to the name  ranaviru .
02 preamble .
03 our functions .
04 targeted beneficiaries .
05 objectives .
06 approach for the year 2011 project budget .
07 staff of the ranaviru sewa authority .
post of project manager and administrative officer .
head quarters of the authority .
08 receipt of financial assistance .
09 special projects implemented in 2011 .
10 methodologies to achieve targets and objectives .
11 data and information division .
12 physical and mental empowerment division .
i psychosocial project .
ii disabled war heroes’ welfare project .
13 education skills and economic development division .
i skills and development division .
ii housing loans .
iii education scholarship project .
iv foster parent programme .
v mapiya surekuma programme .
vi housing assistance project .
14 war hero honor and dignity division .
i ranaviru remembrance project .
ii land project .
15 social and cultural division .
i community  project .
ii ranaviru villages project .
iii cultural division .
16 conclusion .
17 auditor general’s report .
18 financial statement .
vision of the ranaviru sewa authority .
paying the country’s respect and gratitude embodying the name ranaviru” .
our mission statement .
planning and operation of welfare services for the settlement of psychosocial and social issues faced by the family members of those missing  killed of disabled in action in the armed services and police in defending the country and the people and creating a mental awakening of those heroes presently in service .
preamble .
the ranaviru sewa authority was established by the parliamentary act of no 54 1999 .
since its inception to date in the 12 years of existence the authority has marched forward overcoming various obstacles and difficulties during this limited period of time but gained huge experiences that are incomparable .
there are a lot of unique reasons for the emergence of the ranaviru sewa authority when one looks into its functions .
the functions of the ranaviru sewa authority are really supreme in the context of provision of a strong helping hand for the continuation of the future lives of children  wives and parents of  the gallant war heroes who sacrificed their lives or those  missing or lost their limbs in the fight of liberating our motherland from the cruel terrorism that was under the influence of specially both local and overseas conspirators  and  with a view to protect the liberty of the people and the country  their dignity  sovereignty and the territorial integrity .
during the year 2011  the ranaviru sewa authority implemented a number of projects and programmes to discharge this supreme functions and i state with gratitude to all those who supported in this endeavor that it reflects the collective efforts of all of us rendered for the provision of the significant service for the rananiru community amidst various difficulties .
focus was made during this year on organizing programmes of the ranaviru sewa authority that did  not hider to  the corporate plan and the working programme of the authority .
i am confident that all the experiences we had during this period would be very useful to achieve a more systematic and constructive progress in the coming year .
to reach the expected heist in performances of an institution will depend on the parallel functioning of namely three areas of functions of the institution  the team and its personnel who make arrangements to make the functions a reality .
to elaborate  due to the nonidentification of the role and inability to make it a success through collective efforts causes divisions in the group .
development of such divisions in an institution may result in a negative impact on the whole functioning of the institution  following a breakdown of the trend of satisfying individual members of the group .
we in the ranaviru sewa authority  have understood this situation clearly and have made arrangements to discharge  the functions of the authority systematically  this will result in the morale of the individual vying to high a level while mobilizing the collective efforts of the staff as a specific objective to achieve next year .
the most important step that has been initiated in this regard is the reorganization of the ranaviru sewa authority staff to make that structure more constructive and suit the modern requirements .
steps are being taken to implement it next year .
 .
 .
chairperson .
ranaviru sewa authority .
our functions .
according to ranaviru sewa authority act no54 of 1999 .
a to provide for the after care and rehabilitation of members of the armed forces and the police force who have become disabled in action .
b to provide houses and to assist in building those .
i members of the armed forces and the police force who were disabled in action and .
ii the dependents of the members of the armed forces and the police force who have been killed or are missing in action .
c to provide or assist in the provision of medical care to .
i members of the armed forces and police force who have become disabled in action and .
ii the dependants of the members of the armed forces and police force who have been killed or are missing in action .
d to enable .
i members of the armed forces and police force who have become disabled inaction and .
ii the dependants of the members of the armed forces and police force who have been killed or are missing in action to have access to education and higher education by the provision of scholarships and other forms of assistance .
e to assist .
i members of the armed forces and police force who have become disabled in action and .
ii the dependants of the members of the armed forces and police force who have been killed or are missing in action to secure gainful employment .
f to set up industrial  agricultural or commercial ventures with a view to providing employment to the .
i members of the armed forces and police force who have become disabled inaction and .
ii the dependants of the members of the armed forces and police force who have been killed or are missed in action .
g to take action and implement all necessary action for the achievements in  the functions of the authority .
targeted beneficiaries .
the mission of the ranaviru sewa authority is to look after the welfare of a targeted group of beneficiaries identified under the specific category .
those beneficiaries are .
dependents of war heroes who have made the supreme sacrifice or missing in action in safe guarding the country and the nation numbering over 29934 .
war heroes who were disabled in action in safe guarding the  motherland war heroes who lost their livesmissing and became disabled up to the year 2011 provincial wise .
province .
war heroes who lost their lives including those missing .
disabled and retired war heroes .
total number of war heroes .
southern province .
western province .
central province .
sabaragamuwa province .
uva province .
north west province .
north central province .
north and east province .
total .
number of families of war heroes who lost their livesmissing up to the year 2011 provincial wise .
province .
married .
unmarried .
objectives .
1 to establish an effective communication through mobilizing individual ranaviru families scattered all over the island in a manner bringing honor and dignity to the ranaviru name .
2 to create a team of ranaviru family members with self confidence and make them content .
3 to ensure the ownership of a permanent house to each ranaviru family .
4 provision of blocks of land for the land less ranaviru families for the construction of houses .
5 provision of financial assistance to the war heroes and their immediate families to meet urgent needs .
6 to uplift family members of war heroes with self confidence .
7 to engage the disabled war heroes to work with self confidence .
8 to set up model villages highlighting the ranaviru name .
9 to conduct national ranaviru remembrance ceremonies reflecting our undying gratitude for the utmost services rendered by the war heroes and to add the names of war heroes of our era  to the history of our country .
10to make war heroes who have protected the freedom independence and territorial integrity of the motherland at the cost of their lives or limbs or missing  immortal in the chronicle of sri lanka .
approach for the year 2011 .
the ranaviru sewa authority since its establishment in 2000 for the welfare of the family members of war heroes who had made the supreme sacrifice for the protection of the independence of the country and those missing in operations and those who were made to retire on medical grounds following losing the limbs in operations and their family members has been planning and implementing programmes annually on ten priority areas during the past 11 years till 2010 and in 2011 commenced the implementation of progarmmes and projects under five areas .
this is in addition the welfare services that have been implemented for the benefit of the  present war heroes in the services .
project budget .
money was spent on welfare services in the year 2011 with the approval of the management board according to the budget containing provisions for 05 areas of the authority and the media .
the progress of the projects has been given under each head of project .
board of management .
the management board comprised of the following members since the beginning of the year 2011 .
staff of the ranaviru sewa authority .
the staff of the ranaviru sewa authority comprises of permanent  contract and employees who are seconded for service .
the number of staff members has not been increased though the number of programmes has gone up significantly in 2010 compared to those of its beginning .
we have made representations to the treasury on the instructions of the management board of the ranaviru sewa authority on this status and the necessity and a workshop was also held with a view to planning our next course of action .
in 2011 plans were prepared in this regard .
during the last two years 14 trainees who were referred to us by the national apprentice and industrial training authority naita and were under going training at this authority were recruited on contract basis and in 2011 out of them 10 were employed another 04 naita trainees were also recruited in this year .
these recruitments helped very much in the smooth functioning of the authority .
head office of the authority .
the nonexistence of a permanent building to house the ranaviru sewa authority is the main problem encountered by the authority from in the inception .
in 2009 it was able to buy a permanent building on galle road   near bambalapitiya  the modification of that building to suit to an office with more upper floors was started in 2010 .
it is expected to shift the head quarters of the ranaviru sewa authority to this building in first quarter of 2012 .
receipt of financial assistance .
for the functioning of the ranaviru sewa authority  financial provisions are provided through the following sources .
1 from the annual treasury allocation for administration and other day today activities .
2 for the implementation of projects financial contributions are made through jayaviru lotteries and subsequently supiri wasana sampatha .
in addition contributions in the form of cash and kind are donated by both local and foreign donors for the implementation of the welfare activities coming under projects of the ranaviru sewa authority .
funds have been invested in banks with a view to generating income to meet the requirements of planning and the implementation of projects to meet the necessities of the ranaviru beneficiaries in accordance with the provisions of the ranaviru sewa authority .
a better investment plan was implemented for this .
details of income received through the treasury and the lottery in the year 2011 have been indicated in this annual report in final accounts report .
special programmes implemented during the year 2011 .
1ranaviru remembrance week .
the first flag was pinned on his excellency the president on 11th of may at temple trees .
in parallel to this programme  during the ranaviru remembrance week declared by the president may 11 to 18th  arrangements were made to hold various programmes throughout the islandranaviru remembrance functions were held under the patronage of provincial governors .
2 national ranaviru remembrance day .
the main function organized by the ranaviru sewa authority to commemorate the war heroes who had made the supreme sacrifice for the protection of the country was held at the ranaviru monument at sri jayewardenepura parliamentary sports grounds under the patronage of hethe president .
the three forces and the police conducted the traditional honor of guard the  hon prime minister hon speaker religious dignitaries  parliamentarians  governors  chief ministers of provinces  secretary to h e  the president secretary defence and government officials  joint  chief of satff  commanders of the three forces  inspector general of police  heads of government institutions  members of the diplomatic corp  defense attaches of embassies  close relatives of he dead and missing war heroes and disabled war heroes were also present at this function .
this function is held in may annually .
3deyata kirula .
the ranaviru sewa authority had a stall at the deyata kirula exhibition grounds at buttala held from 4th to 9th february to communicate to the people the government’s development drive with the participation of all government organizations and the private sector .
this exhibition was extremely useful to enlighten the public about the welfare services and other programmes undertaken by the authority for the benefit of ranaviru community .
4donation of three wheelers .
a donation of three wheelers was made to the disabled war heroes under a joint programme of disabled welfare and concessionary loan project of the ranaviru sewa authority was held under the patronage of his excellency the prime minister and other distinguished guests including the commander of the armed forces  the event was held at the army grounds of galle face green on the 18th of november 2011 .
three wheelers were gifted to 170 disabled war heroes .
5presentation of uttamapuja pranama medals .
a programme to present awards of uttama puja pranama medals to value their contribution to the parents of war heroes who offered their children to the battle field and wives and children of war heroes was held district wise .
accordingly  uttama puja pranama awards ceremonies were held in 17 districts this year .
methodologies to achieve targets and objectives .
the authority implemented 10 projects on two main targets .
1 bringing the ranaviru families into the society with a strong morale and a pride of vision .
2 provision of material resources on a priority basis required for war heroes and their families to reach a higher living standard socially .
all programmes on these two directions were prepared incorporating suggestions and ideas of the ranaviru community and with the knowledge of experts .
the action plan prepared in that manner is being implemented with the consensus of the ranaviru community .
01 the following projects are being implemented for bringing the ranaviru families into the society with strong morale and a pride he vision .
1 ranviru community project .
2 psychosocial support project .
3 welfare project for disabled war heroes .
4 ranaviru remembrance project .
5 ranaviru villages project .
02 projects for the provision of material resources on a priority basis required for war heroes and their families to reach a higher living standard socially .
1 housing project .
2 concessionary loan project .
3 land project .
4 scholarships project .
5 skills development project .
in 2011 these projects were implemented under five categories taking into account the similarities of such subjects .
1 data and information division .
2 division for empowerment of physical and mental health .
3 education  skills and economic development .
4 respect and dignity of war heroes .
5 social and cultural division .
1data and information division .
objectives .
maintenance of the ranaviru data base .
information analyzing and explanation .
1data and information division .
one of the main objectives of the data and information division is the compilation of a data base containing details and information of service organizations in accordance with clause 9 and 3 of chapter 6th of the ranaviru sewa authority act and maintaining it while being updated .
compilation of data base .
a software system has been developed with the assistance from information technology education department of the moratuwa university .
the questionnaire has been finalized adding whole information related to socioeconomic information of the ranaviru community .
they have obtained the assistance of the ministry of public administration and home affairs to gather relevant details by visiting their houses .
arrangements have been made to make  the data base operational in 2012 with the completion of the data survey .
serial no .
activities .
progress .
gathering internal information .
selection of a public institution with skills for membership survey .
ended .
compilation of a fact sheet adding psychosocial and economic information .
ended .
development of a software system under the supervision of the authority .
ended .
selection of 15 survey conductors by each provincial officers and training them .
ended .
conducting an initial survey and reviewing it .
ended .
gathering data with community   grama niladari and divisional secretary .
in progress .
internal computer networking .
initial work has been commenced .
table 1  development of ranaviru database .
in 2012 focus will be directed on the  following matters .
computerization of information .
conducting a 10 sample survey .
speedy computerization of information in respect of each project .
educating the staff on entire methodology .
responding to the messages received through software .
updating  members’ information .
identification of members and conducting reviews .
updating software at the provincial offices monthly and daily referring of them to officers in charge of provinces .
translation and computerization of list of names for gazette notification .
the main objective of this is the preparation of the list of names of the recipients of the uttama puja medals on district basis to be gazetted .
lists of districts of kandy puttalam  polonnaruwa  colombo  kalutara  gampaha  batticloa  trincomalee  badulla  kegalle  anuradhapura  kunuragala  hambantota and nuwaraeliya are available .
targeted numbers .
progress during the year .
447819approximately .
table 2 translation and computerization of list of names for gazette notification .
issue of identity cards to close relatives of war heroes for the purpose of granting priority .
as a remedy to a main problem encountered by the ranaviru community at the regional level in giving priority  at the request of the ranaviru community and under the guidance of the ministry of defence  identity cards are issued to close relatives of ranaviru families to establish they are members of ranaviru families .
1043 identity cards exceeding the target of 1000  were issued in 2011 to close relatives of ranaviru families .
year .
targeted numbers .
progress .
table 3 issue of identity cards to close relatives of war heroes for the purpose of granting priority .
diagram 2 issue of identity cards to close relatives of war heroes for the purpose of granting priority .
a long period of time is required  to issue the entire number when considering the manner they apply for them and a much time has to be spent to complete the related work till the issuance .
hence as an alternative arrangements have been made to issue identity cards to close relatives of ranaviru families  using the data base from 2012 .
provision of financial assistance over a death of a war hero or any other disaster .
at the same time the family of such a war hero is enrolled to the ranaviru community  project .
financial assistance has been granted in the following manner .
year .
targeted numbers .
progress for the year .
table 4 provision of financial assistance over a death of a war hero or any other disaster .
diagram 3 provision of financial assistance over a death of a war hero or any other disaster .
all payments in respect of the year 2011 were made .
supporting the uttama puja pranama medals presentaion .
list of names and relevant details were furnished for the uttama puja pranama medals presentation .
printed lists of names and the summary of information in respect of the hambantota and nuwaraeliya were provided .
02 empowerment of physical and mental health .
i psychosocial support project .
01 health clinics .
health clinics held in 2011 .
serial no .
date and place .
27112011 – at buttala divisional secretariat for the monaragala district community  members during the deyata kirula exhibition .
10062011 at nagoda family care hospital  nagoda for kalutara district community  members during  the national ranaviru month .
13122011 the medical clinic scheduled to be held at the kabithigollewa central college was postponed due to urgent work .
02 obtaining assistance of consultants of outside institutions .
initial coordination was arranged but it was decided to implement in 2012 due to a decision of the restructuring programme structure as instructed by the chairperson .
03 psychological programme .
serial no .
province .
district .
date and venue .
programme .
no of programme .
western .
colombo .
gampaha .
17122011mahara pradeshiya sabha .
psychological workshop .
kalutara .
south .
galle .
matara .
hambantota .
central .
kandy .
matale .
nuwaraeliya .
uva .
badulla .
monaragala .
sabaragamuwa .
kegalle .
ratnapura .
north central .
anuradhapura .
twoday residential training workshop for disabled war heroes .
abhimansala suwa sewa nikethana anuradhapura .
polonnaruwa .
eastern .
ampara .
trincomalee .
north western .
kurunegala .
13102011 – shilpa shalika hall kuliyapitiya .
psychological workshop .
puttalam .
22112011 sudasuna hall  chillaw .
psychological workshop .
total .
04 practical difficulties that emerged in organizing workshops .
the targeted schedule of conducting programmes could not be achieved in the backdrop of the failure in the part of the provincial officers who were entrusted the job of organizing necessary programmes at the  provincial level and educating about the project .
05 medical assistance .
the targeted objective of this programme is granting financial assistance to war heroes and members of the  ranviru families who need treatment  surgeries due to serious ailments who  face financial difficulties as they belong to the low income group .
2011 targeted number of financial assistance .
on requests as and when received allocation for 2011 .
amount of financial assistance granted .
number of applications issued in 2011 .
number of requests received .
written requests .
through telephones approximately .
medical assistance programme .
serial no .
applicant s name .
community  ds .
war hero s .
name .
serviceservicexno .
 .
ambagamuwa .
 .
 .
 .
ambagamuwa .
 .
medadummbara .
 .
talawa .
 .
matale .
 .
 .
kuruwita .
 .
meegahakiula .
 .
yatinuwara .
 .
horana .
 .
 .
galgamuwa .
 .
horambawa .
 .
pathadumbara .
 .
east .
kandy .
 .
kesbewa .
 .
alawwa .
 .
 .
kuliyapitiya west .
 .
talawa .
 .
mawanella .
remarks .
03 approval of the management board was granted to decide by a special panel on the monthly assistance that could be granted when a beneficiary is unable to submit a specific financial estimate for treatment .
06 granting medical loans .
number of loans targeted for 2011 20 .
number of loans granted in 2011 05 .
number of applications issued in 2011 20 .
number of request letters received in 2011 .
written 08 .
through telephone approximately 07 .
direct requests calling at the project  05 .
medical relief loan programme .
serial no .
applicant .
servicecommunity .
service number .
 .
navy .
 .
army .
 .
police .
subinspector .
 .
army .
 .
army .
the majority of applicants who applied for the medical relief loan programme during the last years were war heroes in service .
there is a decline in the  of number of requests for medical relief loans received this year in comparison to other years  this is due to  army welfare unit introducing a special medical loan programme in 2011 for members of the army in service .
reasons for nonobtaining loans by some certain applicants half way during the process .
01 inadequacy of remaining service period of most of the medical relief applicants being an obstacle in releasing loans .
02 minimizing the need of obtaining loans as applicants are receiving sufficient financial assistance for surgeries .
03 inability of obtaining loans prior to the surgery .
04 rejecting acceptance of loans made by applicants since they were unable to obtain it as they had undergo surgeries suddenly .
07 ranaviru children’s skills evaluation programme .
this programme is meant to evaluate the skills of children of hose dead or missing  disabled and in service war heroes and their siblings .
applications were entertained from 2009 to december 2010 and winners were selected and categorized at various levels out of those applications .
the main function was held at john de silva theatre  colombo 7 on 07042011 .
those winners included 310 who excelled in education  sports  esthetics  languages and activities out of subject .
the selection of the 2010 winners provincial wise for children’s skills evaluation programme is as follows .
serial no .
no of winners .
08 single counseling psycho counseling support .
single counseling support was extended to the war heroes and members of their families who sought such a service regarding their mental and family problems and we rereferred to the psychosocial division during the year .
persons who sought single counseling support were referred to the counseling officer of the department of social services at the closest divisional secretariat  as there is no suitable place in the building  where the head office is temporarily housed .
activities engaged in other projects of the authority .
01 inspection of houses being built in the monaragala district and scheduled to open in parallel to the deyata kirula exhibition that took place on 5th and 6th of january .
02 participated in wellawaya community  meeting in the monaragala district on 7012011 representing the authority .
03 supported the initial organizing work and participated in  ranaviru day function .
04 supported the organizing work and participated in the distribution of three wheelers organized by the disabled ranaviru welfare project .
05 supported the distribution of letters in respect of yhe uttama puja  pranama medal awards presentation .
activities carried out in coordination with  outside institutions .
institution .
date and venue .
programme .
programmes conducted with family planning association .
13092011anuradhapura  northern camp .
health clinic and counseling programme .
14092011medawachchiya women corp .
health clinic and counseling programme .
15092011 oddusudan army camp .
health clinic and counseling programme .
04102011mankulam army camp .
health clinic and counseling programme .
05102011kilinochchi army camp .
health clinic and counseling programme .
06102011kankasnathurei women’s army corpscamp .
health clinic and counseling programme .
18102011dehiattakandiya army camp .
health clinic and counseling programme .
03112011trincomalee navy camp .
health clinic and counseling programme .
common difficulties .
01 nonreceipt of adequate support from certain provincial officers in organizing workshops generally being held outside the head quarters .
02 sending time for urgent special programmes at the cost of general programmes .
03 problems encountered by the staff due to inadequacy of space in the office .
04 all three persons attached to the project are women .
services of an officer are needed for technical and other requirements in organizing outside workshops and other related activities .
ii disabled ranaviru welfare project .
01distribution three wheelers 2011 .
objective .
to ensure that the war hero and his family members are well placed in the society in a strong position both mentally and economically through measures for averting transport difficulties he faces due to becoming disabled and easing transport means of their family members  and providing opportunities for them to contribute for the development of the liberated country .
target group .
the disabled war heroes of the armed forces and the police who were made to retire on doctor’s recommendations following being disabled in action and the disabled war heroes of the armed forces and the police who have to remain at home on medical grounds .
progress .
the target for the year has been achieved .
assistance for sanitary facilities 2011 .
objective .
provision of financial assistance for the building a bath room with a security fence for use of the disabled war heroes as a step of relieving them from difficulties they face in the day today work .
making travel arrangements up to the house of the war hero and for providing other necessities .
target group .
the disabled war heroes of the armed forces and the police who made to retire while on duty on doctor’s recommendations .
the service .
 .
progress .
the target for the year has achieved .
equipments for the disabled 2011 .
equipment .
quantity .
artificial foot .
hand aid .
wheel chairs .
hearing aid .
equipments needed for disabled war heroes such as artificial feet  hand aid  wheel chairs  hearing aid  crutches  water beds are distributed with the support of local and foreign donors as a step of relieving them from difficulties they face due their disability status .
the authority provided only one artificial foot .
residential training workshops for the disabled war heroes  2011 .
objective .
the activities under taken during this assignment include looking after the welfare of the disabled war heroes and their  family members  encouraging them to initiate self employment programmes  as a measure of enhancing the economy  guiding for  bhawana  for boosting  of the morale and spiritual wellbeing and presentation of cultural items for their entertainment with the participation of resource persons these workshops are held for two days at the provincial level .
progress .
a workshop was successfully concluded at monaragala in the uva province .
03education  skills and economic development division .
i skills development project .
introduction .
improvement of the earning capacity of families of those dead  missing  retired with disability and in service war heroes who have done much for safe guarding the country and the people  through enhancing capacity while imparting practical and theoretical knowledge in different fields to suit to their education qualifications and talents .
vision .
enhancement of the earning capacity of family members of war heroes according to their capacity and talents .
mission .
creating a conducive back ground for family members of war heroes while improving their self confidence  identifying their skills and directing  them to courses and assignments with a view to imparting technical and technological knowledge and training to suit their skills and direct them to the  income generating process .
objectives .
to make family members of war heroes a group bringing with selfconfidence and skills by making an attitudinal change in them .
identifying the training needs based on talents and skills of ranaviru family members and guide  them for imparting technical and technological knowledge and training and making available opportunities .
being referred for jobs and encouraging them for selfemployment .
enhancement of thrift and savings of ranaviru family members .
skills development project .
development of computer centers .
awarding semi scholarships for educational and vocational courses .
granting village advisory allowances .
conducting language courses .
granting aid for self employment .
conducting provincial workshops on self employment .
granting loans for self employment .
granting loans for skills development .
linking with various institutions to meet the needs of family members of war heroes through skills development project .
special projects under the skills development projects .
new computer centers and development of existing  computer centers .
one important task of the skills development project is to make provision for family members of the war heroes and of those who retired with disability improve their computer knowledge .
50 computer centers are being effectively run by the authority as of the end of 2011 .
most of computer maintenance jobs of these computer centers were done using the knowledge and skills of the project without bearing additional costs .
progress of computer centers was reviewed this year as well and the progress and deficiencies were brought to the notice of the chairperson  the project manager and provincial officers in writing .
instructors’ fees were paid only to the instructors who completed the specific number of hours of teaching .
examinations were conducted for students who completed computer courses and certificates were issued to about 200 students who completed the courses successfully .
the telecommunication regulatory commission contributed for the development of infrastructure of computer centers this year .
conducting workshops for computer instructors .
a two day training workshop for computer instructors at the computer centers of the authority scattered through out the island was held at the moratuwa university on 3 4 december 2011 in collaboration with the moratuwa university with full support of the vice chancellor  the dean of the information technology faculty and the staff .
categorization of computer centers provincial wise .
western province .
1 agalawatta .
2 nugedolawatta .
3 udupila delgoda .
4 keragala .
5 wathupitiwala .
6 kosgama .
7 dodamgoda .
8 dompe .
9 gampaha .
10walbotalegama .
sabaragamuwa .
1 mawanella .
2 nivitigala .
3 balangoda .
4 kegalle .
5 embilipitiya .
6 rambukkana .
central .
1 balagolla .
2 walpane .
3 hanguranketha .
4 ganga ihala korale .
5 ukuwela .
6 galewela .
uva .
1 madulla .
2 perahettiya .
3 mahiyangana .
4 wellawaya .
5 passara .
6 medagama .
7 kataragama .
north western .
1 ibbagamuwa .
2 nikaweratiya .
3 anamaduwa .
4 mallawapitiya .
5 polpitigama .
6 narammala .
south .
1 mapalagama .
2 lunugamwehera .
3 weligama .
4 lunama .
5 neluwa .
north central .
1 rambwa .
2 kekirawa .
3 galnewa .
4 medawachchiya .
east .
1 kantale .
2 gomarankadawela .
3 nawagampura .
4dehiattakandiya .
locations of computer centers .
computer training workshop – moratuwa university .
conducting english training workshops .
a workshop to train english instructors selected from community  and the villages for improving english knowledge of family members of war heroes at community  and the villages was conducted on the 12th and 13 th of december at hector kobbekaduwa agricultural training institute by the skills development project of the ranaviru sewa authority .
13 english instructors participated in this workshop .
awarding semi scholarships for educational vocational courses .
granting skills aid .
the objective of this project is improving technical and technological education and vocational skills of children of war heroes with a view to pave the way for successful employment in future .
granting skills aid .
district wise .
district .
no of  beneficiaries .
payment of village instructor’s allowance .
this programme has been designed to provide financial contributions  advise and make direction the upgrading the skills and technological proficiency in various fields .
an instructor is paid of rs  4000 per month as an encouragement .
courses such as dancing  music  computer science  preschools and english language studies are used in this regard .
location of centers .
western .
1watupitiwela .
2keragala .
3kosgama .
4 udupila .
central .
1balagolla .
north central .
1rambawe .
2kekirawa .
3galnewa .
uva .
1perahettita .
2welimada .
north western .
1ibbagamuwa .
east .
1kantale .
2nawagampura .
south .
1mapalagama .
granting self employment aid 2011 .
under this project  financial assistance is given to the ranaviru families of those dead  missing  retired with disability and those who die or become disabled while in service due to causes outside the operations  to begin a self employment or to improve an existing one .
 .
the self employment target of 40 for 2011 was achieved by the end of year giving financial assistance to 40 beneficiaries .
progress of offering self employment assistance – provincial wise .
progress of offering self employment assistance – district wise .
progress of offering self employment assistance – industrial  wise .
industry .
no of beneficiaries .
sewing clothes .
animal husbandry .
bridal  dressing .
brick making .
handicraft production .
groceries .
sale of fruits .
mushroom cultivation .
sale of clothes .
making of brown paper bags .
making  alter wicks .
making of  door mats .
flower cultivation .
packaging of dates .
sale of toys .
sale of sweets .
grinding mill .
packeting lime .
packeting dried fish .
total .
progress of offering self employment assistance – services wise .
service .
no of beneficiaries .
army .
air force .
navy .
police .
total .
offering self employment assistance – break down for the years .
year .
number .
total .
4 conducting workshops on self employment .
the aim of this effort is to identify the different self employment projects specified to some areas in the country and educate the interested ranaviru families to  be engaged in them .
four workshops were held in 2011 in 04 provinces .
north western province .
workshop on the batik industry .
central province .
workshop on the manufacture of the glue for school  cleaning liquid for toilet and hand washing soap  and entrepreneurship .
sabaragamuwa province .
workshop on the manufacture of sweets .
western province .
workshop on the manufacture of  leather products .
05 granting self employment loans .
under this project loans are given to the families of those dead  missing  and those retired with disability to begin a self employment or to improve an existing one .
the target for granting self employment  loans in 2011 was 25 and loans had been issued to 19  persons by the end of the year .
progress of granting self employment loans .
progress of granting self employment loans district wise .
progress of granting self employment loans trade wise .
trade .
no of beneficiaries .
grocery .
sewing clothes .
home gardening .
carpentry .
betal cultivation .
sale of toys .
anthurium cultivation .
manufacture bag .
progress of granting self employment loans services wise .
service .
no of beneficiaries .
army .
air force .
police .
navy .
granting skills development loans .
during 2011 under the skills development loan scheme loans were given to 13 beneficiaries selected from among close relatives daughter  son  wife of war heroes who had sacrificed their lives for the country and those presently in the service serving the country and for parents and siblings of the unmarried  for taking part in international competitions in accordance with their talents to bring glory to  the country .
granting skills development loans  2011 .
1 world volleyball tournament of the disabled held in kampuchea 2011 .
2 to purchase air tickets to participate in 1st volleyball tournament of the disabled played while being seated held in beijing china .
3 for participating in a karate competition held in india .
4 for participating in a karate competition held in india .
linkages with different institutions for meeting requirements of ranaviru family members through skills development projects .
arrangements were made through the skills development project  to link ranaviru family members with different government and nongovernment institutions to meet their identified necessities such as job opportunities  getting jobs confirmed  following study and vocational courses  enhancement of artistic talent  and participating in trade exhibitions .
break down of beneficiaries who gained help through the linkages 2011 .
special projects  under the skills development project .
holding a self employment products sale stall at the dayata kirula exhibition .
a self employment products sales stall was opened at the dayata kirula exhibition 2011 buttala by the skills and economic development project at which products of 15 beneficiaries were on display for sale .
annual progress in summary .
province .
selfemployment assistance .
selfemployment loans .
aid for studies  courses .
skills development loans .
iihousing loans .
objective .
the objective of this project is to grant concessionary the loans under housing loan programme in order to raise wellbeing of the ranaviru families economically and mentally .
granting housing loans .
granting community  housing loans .
granting village housing loans .
granting housing loans for those in the service .
housing loan programme  community .
the ranaviru sewa authority has introduced this housing loan scheme to make the dream of a house of ranaviru families a reality .
community housing loans are granted for the following purposes .
a to build a new house .
b to improve the existing house .
c for  renovation .
the ranaviru family members of the community are eligible for community  housing loans .
01 close relatives of war heroes who had died in action .
02 close relatives of war heroes missing in action .
03 close relatives of war heroes who became disabled in action and retired .
granting of community housing loans 2011 .
granting of community housing loans .
services wise .
service .
no of beneficiaries .
army .
air force .
navy .
police .
granting village housing loans .
the ranaviru sewa authority has introduced this housing loan scheme to make the dream of house of the ranaviru families living in ranaviru villages a reality .
village housing loans are granted for following purposes .
a to build a new house .
b to improve the existing house .
c for  renovations .
the ranaviru family members in the ranaviru villages are eligible for village housing loans .
01 close relatives of war heroes died in action .
02 close relatives of war heroes missing in action .
03 close relatives of war heroes who became disabled in action and retired .
the ranaviru villages that received village housing loans in 2011 .
the name of the village .
no of loans granted .
pelendagoda .
pasyala .
perahettiya .
lunugamvehera .
progress of granting village housing loans graphics for year 2011 .
03housing loan programme for those presently in the service .
the objective of this project is to grant concessionary loans under housing loan programme in order to help war heroes and the police presently in service to fulfill their aspirations .
concessionary loans are also available for the present members of the armed forces and the police  the loans percentages are army 40  navy 15  air force15  police 25 .
their loan applications can be collected from respective welfare directorates .
parties benefited .
01 members of the armed services with at least 12 year service record 5 more year service period needed .
02 members of the police with at least 20 year service record 5 more year service period needed .
housing loan programme for those presently in the service .
the service .
no of beneficiaries .
army .
air force .
navy .
police .
iii educational scholarships project .
introduction .
the educational project of the ranaviru sewa authority is operative in view of helping the children of war heroes who have died  missing  retired disabled while engaged in action for safeguarding the country and the people  and those who are presently in the services  to continue their education up to their higher education successfully .
the scholarships categories .
1 ranaviru children savings investment scholarships .
this scheme commenced in 2005 in collaboration with the national savings bank .
it also expected to improve their savings habit as this system allows the account holder to make private contributions to it .
this money is meant for the education of the children concerned and not for the enhancement of the family income .
most of the ranaviru children presently belong to the lower age group and they enter the higher classes at the time of retirement of the war hero after completion of his service period of 12 or 22 years .
further with the retirement of the war hero the family income declines .
this happens at a time they need much money for the education of the child .
it is imperative  to be prepared with  some form of investment being made for these children considering these facts .
as an initial step  this programme covering ranaviru children who have shown remarkable results  is carried out in collaboration with the national savings bank  a leading state bank in the saving sector .
the progress of awarding saving investment scholarships to ranaviru children in 2011 .
referred anticipated .
awarded .
community members .
applications of community members were referred via community and all applicants who applied  were awarded with scholarships .
distribution of scholarships among services .
service .
noscholarships .
army .
navy .
air force .
police .
stf .
distribution of scholarships according to district .
2 education scholarships .
it will be decided whether to make the payment for a year or two based on the grade in which the student is studying .
progress in awarding educational scholarships in 2011 .
break down of awarding of scholarships among services .
districtvice sholarship distribution .
3 scholarship awarding ceremonies .
date .
district .
noscholarships to a district .
scholarships from the kuwait govt .
colombokosgama .
puttalam .
galle .
kurunegala .
kandy nuwaraeliya .
matale .
ampara .
badulla .
anuradhapura .
kalutara .
scholarships to students who  passed the year 5 scholarship examination .
annual progress summory of scholarship project .
serial  no .
programme .
no awarded .
education scholarshipsgce ol al .
ranaviru children’s savings investment scholarships .
scholarship awarding ceremonies .
number of scholarships .
1v foster parents programme .
introduction .
the children of war heroes in the armed services and the police who are dead  missing and became  disabled while engaged in operations for the safeguarding the territorial integrity of the country  are the beneficiaries of this programme for the provision of scholarships with the support of local and overseas donors .
in the event of the suspension of a scholarship it will be paid again with funds from the authority .
the payment will continue till the children sit for the gce al and it is stopped thereafter .
objectives .
1 helping school children of low income ranaviru families to complete their education successfully untill their higher education .
2 directing donations from local and overseas donors who are interested in the welfare of war heroes .
3 arranging financial sponsorships of donors for the benefit of ranaviru children with disabilities or those who are sick .
targeted groups .
1 school age children of war heroes who have died or have become disabled due  to causes outside operations and belong to the category of low income families .
2 school going children of war heroes who have become totally disabled .
3 disabled or ailing children of war heroes who are presently in servicedeaddisabled or missing .
the scholarship count 0f the children of war heroes in the year 2011 .
month .
scholarships initiated with the authority’s funding .
scholarships initiated with contributions from donors .
no of paymentcompleted scholarships in the year 2011 .
month .
no of scholarships ceased .
january .
february .
march .
april .
may .
june .
july .
august .
september .
october .
november .
december .
total .
the payment of money in aid was suspended since the beneficiary children have completed their studies and two children had died .
 .
amount of expenditure for the authority funded scholarships – rs 233350000 .
 .
amount of expenditure for donor funded scholarships .
medical aid for disabled and sick war heroes and children of war heroes .
file no .
name of the war hero or the child .
disabled status or ailment .
service rendered or money paid .
 .
 .
a totally disabled war hero .
 .
 .
a ranaviru child who has lost her right foot .
this money still has been deposited in the account division and the beneficiary has been informed by a letter that money would be total amount required for the purchase of an artificial foot is collected .
 .
a ranaviru who has suffered from disease in relation to muscles .
 .
a child suffering from a bone disease .
 .
a child suffering from an eye ailment .
distribution of new scholarships began 2011 district wise .
 .
in the year 2011 .
the project received a large number of applications .
majority of them were returned due to shortcomings in them .
arrangements were made to send letters informing each child who was selected and awarded a scholarship within the very same month .
arrangements were made to provide the donors with details of recipient children to whom they will provide aid .
an acnowledgement confirming the receipt of money and a letter thanking for providing the funds were sent to each donor .
in 2011  in addition to granting scholarships  arrangements were made to find money through donors  to meet the cost of providing electricity to the house of the mother of a war hero and to give school stationery to one ranaviru child .
v mapiya surekum programme .
data in respect of new beneficiaries .
no of new recipients .
no of rejected applications .
amount paid in 2011 .
target of new beneficiaries for the year concerned .
number awarded .
though it was expected to grant mapiya surekum to 150 persons only 113 were covered in 2011 since there were no applications from districts .
provincial breakdown of new beneficiaries .
serial  no .
province .
no of new beneficiaries .
central .
western .
east .
south .
north central .
sabaragamuwa .
uva .
north western .
payment for old beneficiaries .
money is deposited twice a year once in 6 months in respect of beneficiaries covered by the mapiya surekum programme .
the amount of first six monthsjanuary to june .
expenditure .
the amount of last six monthsjuly to december .
expenditure .
late deposits .
expenditure january to june .
late deposits .
expenditure july to december .
roles and daily responsibilities .
dealing with the kirulapone branch of the national savings bank where accounts of all parents of mapiya surekum programme have been opened .
educating the parents to send their account books to the post office branches of the national savings bank in their district .
arranging letters of awareness to post office branches through the national savings bank .
compilation of data base containing details of all beneficiary parents of mapiya surekum programme .
making arrangements through salary and record division to get updated lists of names of parents who receive 25 of the salary  and the cancellation  the mapiya surekum accounts of parents who receive the salary .
making arrangements for the cancellation of dead parents’ accounts .
sending a list of new beneficiaries to all community  officers .
a request with relevant details  submitted to the management board for approval for granting mapiya surekum benefits to parents of war heroes who have died from nonoperational causes was turned down .
compilation of project reports .
the letters sent by parents explaining problems were referred to the relevant authorities and replies were sent in respect of problems that could be resolved arrangements were made to reply correctly the telephone calls from beneficiaries and worked with relevant banks .
as the mapiya surekum beneficiaries include elderly persons we have to attend often to jobs related to their accounts since most of them do not understand the details regarding the bank accounts  though they were repeatedly explained .
v1housing aid project .
new payments for 2011 .
expected number .
rejected number .
number of payments made .
target of new beneficiaries for the year concerned .
number achieved .
provincial breakdown of new beneficiaries .
serial no .
 .
arrangements were made to provide housing aid to 38 persons in the anuradhapura district in view of the deyata kirula programme .
payment of installments to 16 beneficiaries was completed .
district officers have made arrangements to distribute cheques in respect of housing aid under the patronage of the governors and the  beneficiaries were educated by this project .
value of payment of installments in respect of housing aid prior to 2011january to july 2011 .
serial no .
province .
2 no of installments .
3 no of installments .
amount of money .
responsibilities and roles .
preparing files of new beneficiaries and completion of shortcomings in the files .
preparation of 2011 ledger as instructed by the accounts division and categorizing files on a district basis .
preparation of a list of old housing aid recipients .
obtaining progress reports on the work the old housing aid recipients who have completed the installments .
sending letters to all the community presidents regarding the housing aid .
referred the requests for housing aid received from close relatives of war heroes who have died from nonoperational causes to project manager for the preparation of the list and necessary action .
educating the housing aid recipients .
replying to letters regarding the housing matters and referring them to provincial officers and looking into problems brought up by beneficiaries over the phone .
04 ranaviru honor and dignity division .
i ranaviru remembrance project .
the ranaviru honor and dignity division can be described as one of the principal and unique divisions of the ranaviru sewa authority .
the objective of this division is to create respect in the society towards the war heroes and creating self esteem in war heroes themselves and maintaining this social status consistently .
this division has entered into several individual projects to achieve this objective .
1 conducting ranaviru remembrance ceremonies at the national and the regional levels .
2 maintenance of ranaviru monuments and parks and making necessary payments .
3 ranaviru common welfare activities .
sub programmes operative under this project .
1 national ranaviru day .
2 awarding of ranaviru uttama puja medals .
3 adorning of ranaviru flags .
4 provincial ranaviru seminars .
5 mailapitiya park maintenance and making payments .
6 preventing activities detrimental to the ranaviru name .
7 ranaviru remembrance programmes with outside institutions .
8 regional remembrance parks and halls .
programmes conducted .
remembarance program conducted in national and provincial level .
national ranaviru day function was successfully held at the parliamentary sports ground on may 18th 2011 .
awarding of ranaviru uttama puja medals took place in 17 districts .
adorning of ranaviru flags took place in 8 provinces .
8 provincial ranaviru seminars were held .
one ranaviru remembrance programmes was conducted with outside institutions .
 .
maintenance ranaviru monuments and parks and making payments .
mailapitiya park maintenance .
water bills .
electricity bills .
telephone bills .
payments for maintenance services .
payments for maintenance items .
payments due for building new ranaviru monuments .
ranaviru common welfare activities .
government service transfers of close relatives of war heroes .
issue of recommendations and extending support necessary at the school’s entrance of ranaviru children .
sending letters and assisting in securing building material at concessionary prices for building houses for ranaviru families .
educating the relevant authorities and making arrangements to name roads in the name of war heroes .
recommendations and instructions were issued about appeals and requests that were being received daily in this regard .
special prgrammes .
this medal awards presentation had a good influence on creating respect and self esteem towards the war heroes’ relatives in the name of the war hero .
national ranaviru day function was successfully held at the ranaviru monument at the parliamentary sports ground with the participation of he the president and the secretary of defence .
ranaviru celebrations were held at the regional and provincial levels through out the island recollecting the dignity of the war heroes and  to remind the people that the war heroes are a respectable group in the society the regional and provincial level ceremonies resulted in reaffirming the ranaviru families as heroic families with dignity .
11 land project .
introduction .
provision of shelter to the relevant families is a very special and complex aspect in delivering the services of the ranaviru sewa authority for the benefit of war heroes and their families .
in most cases war heroes and their families encountered difficulties in finding places land to build houses even though encouragement with providing financial facilities are made available to get a suitable house built for living through the housing and concessionary loan scheme .
non availability of a block of land is a barrier to secure other welfare requirements .
the land unit of the ranaviru sewa authority took this situation into consideration making arrangements to provide blocks of land to war heroes and also helped indirectly to find them land for housing .
vision .
provision of suitable land for housing and living .
mission .
provision of suitable land for war heroes and their families for building houses for living .
objectives .
a identification of landless war heroes and their families .
b identification of state land or other land that can be distributed among war heroes and preparation of such land suitable for distribution .
c development of land earmarked  for distribution among war heroes .
d making arrangements with relevant institutions  for the distribution of land among  war heroes .
01 finding land .
under this programme land will be reserved through divisional secretariats for distribution among war heroes .
sending letters to divisional secretariats  for gathering information on unidentified blocks of land in all districts .
the identified land obtained through the above action is as follows .
no .
district .
divisional secretariat .
name of the land .
extent .
kalutara .
bandaragama .
mahahena .
112 acres .
anuradhapura .
horawpathana .
morawewa village .
300 hac .
anuradhapura .
rajanganaya .
kurunegala .
giribawa .
nirawiyagama .
kurunegala .
rasnayahkepura .
303 udahenagama .
kurunegala .
polpithigama .
no8 and 1l 0f ac 40 r02 p28 1871 of kadagatha wewa .
puttalam .
arachhickattuwa .
grass land .
ac35 .
kudawairankattuwa .
ac 40 .
puttalam .
anamaduwa .
649 kottukachachiya .
ac40 .
658 c diulwewa .
ac 28 .
ac 100 .
badulla .
ridiamaliyadda .
bubulapitiya .
ac 40 .
badulla .
passara .
ihala ambatenna .
ac40 .
ampara .
arrangements have been made with the civil defence ministry and the department of prison to clear the land that is donated to the authority and those earmarked for distribution in collaboration with divisional secretariats .
the services of government approved surveyors’ will be obtained to finalise the survey of these lands .
02 distribution of land .
01names of 210 war heroes who qualified at the interviews were sent to the madurawela divisional secretariat for distribution land from nagahakanda estate in madurawela .
nagahakanda estate in madurawela .
extent .
ac1977 .
no of blocks for distribution .
210 .
02 meegahakiula land  badulla .
the list of 241 applicants in the badulla district who had been referred to the authority for obtaining land was recommended and sent to the meegahakiula divisional secretariat .
03development of land earmarked for distribution among war heroes .
allocation of money to divisional secretaries for development of land earmarked for distribution among war heroes in collaboration with the divisional secretariat .
districts where the land observation was made are as follows .
desiwattha akmeemana .
galle .
yakabedda akuressa .
matara .
sooriyagahawela koragahawela land .
hambantota .
meegahakiula land .
badulla .
telbeddawattha land .
badulla .
droping wattha land .
badulla .
hingurana peranigama damana .
ampara .
balangoda meda koralegama land .
ratnapura .
4helping war heroes to get land and assisting them in settlement of land issues .
recommendations for land .
some war heroes having applied for a block of land from the mahaweli authority requested our recommendation for it .
in such cases their details will be collected through applications and those details will be forwarded to welfare directorate for approval .
so subsequently recommendations sent to institutions concerned recommendations issued during the year are as follows .
service .
army .
navy .
airforce .
police .
total .
institution .
mahaweli authority .
divisionalsecretariat .
land reform commission .
land commissioner’s offices .
helping war heroes to get land issues settled .
letters received from the war heroes for securing help in solving problems such as getting deeds or licenses for the land they settled on and getting the approval for building a house are referred to institutions concerned requesting priority for them .
requests received during the year are as follows .
matters .
referred institution .
getting deeds or licenses .
settlement of land issuses and approval for house building .
other .
total .
mahaweli authority .
divisional secretariat .
land reform commission .
land commissioner’s offices .
housing development authority .
land ministry and other institutes .
agrarian service department .
05 social and cultural division .
1 community  project .
budget 1 community cluster programmes .
expected no .
progress .
expenditure .
completed no .
rs .
programmes .
programme to promote friendship of kurunegala district community  members held on 21042011 .
programme to promote friendship of puttalam district community  members held on 24042011 .
programme to promote friendship of gampaha district community  members held on 22042011 .
programme to promote friendship of colombo district community  members held on 22042011 .
making arrangements for the unveiling of a ranaviru monument erected by naththandiya ranaviru community .
unveiling of a ranaviru monument  erected by hanguranketha ranaviru  community  on 07062011 .
unveiling of ranaviru monument  erected by pujapitiya ranaviru  community ya on 09062011 .
making financial contribution for pirith chanting pinkama organized  by hanwella ranaviru community ya .
organized the participation of the wives  of war heroes for the indonesian cultural show held on 07092011 at bmich .
organized the participation of war heroes for a programme held at the rupawahini corporation .
a function with the participation of war heroes  was held at dodamgoda entrance prior to the opening of  southern express way on19112011 .
the ranaviru sewa authority and  the western province ranaviru community  conducted a bodhi puja on 24112011at the gangaramaya temple  hunupitiya .
budget 2 district awareness .
expected no .
completed no .
monthly progress .
expenditure .
rs .
district committee meetings of badulla and monaragala of uva province were held on 07th  08th of may 2011 .
kandy district committee meeting on 18072011 .
matale  district committee meeting on 19072011 .
puttlam district committee meeting on 25072011 .
ampara district committee meeting on 04082011 .
badulla  district committee meeting on 08082011 .
anuradhapura district committee meeting on 18082011 .
kalutara district committee meeting on 22082011 .
gampaha district committee meeting on 29092011 .
polonnaruwa district committee meeting on 24102011 .
budget 3 spiritual and social programmes .
expected no .
completed no .
monthly progress .
amawaka poya day religious programme in june .
taking part in the religious programme held at the kebithigollewa bodhiraja temple organized by kotavehera ranaviru community .
in october  the amawaka porgramme was held at the kahatagasdigiliya viharaya .
bhawana programme was held for disabled war heroes at the sri sudarsanarama viharaya  polgasowita on 20122011 for their spiritual benefit .
budget 4 retaining the membership and making a success the actions of community .
expected no .
completed no .
progress .
annex  01 .
property  plant and equipment .
general account .
descriptions .
office furniture  equipment .
plant machinery  other office equipment .
vehicles .
total .
cost as at 1 st january 2011 .
additions .
disposablesadjustment .
cost as at 31st december 2011 .
depreciation .
accumulated depreciation .
as at 1st january 2011 .
income  expenditure ac .
accumulated depreciation .
as at 31st december 2011 .
net book value .
as at 31st december 2011 .
projects accounts .
descriptions .
building  structures .
office furniture .
plant machinery  other office equipment .
vehicles .
total .
cost .
as at 1st january 2011 .
additions .
disposablesadjustment .
cost .
as at 31st december 2011 .
depreciation .
accumulated depreciation .
as at 1st january 2009 .
disposablesadjustment .
income  expenditure ac .
accumulated depreciation .
as at 31st december 2011 .
net book value .
as at 31st december 2011 .
annex 02 .
fixed deposit .
projects 2011 .
rs .
education project .
ranaviru remembrance  benevolent project .
annex 03 .
stocks .
projects 2011 .
rs .
ranaviru remembrance  benevolent project .
stocks have been valued at lower of cost and net realizable value after making due allowing for obsolete items .
annex 04 .
short term investment bank of ceylon .
general account .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
041 repos investment .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
concessionary loan project .
042 treasury bill investment .
ranaviru remembrance  benevolent project .
043 fund management account .
general account .
housing project .
education project .
skill dev project .
socio  psychosocial project .
ranaviru remembrance  benevolent project .
disable war heroes project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 05 .
loan balances .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
051 receivable interest income .
treasury bill interest income .
ranaviru rememb  benevo pro .
fixed deposit interest income .
education project .
saving account interest income .
disable war heroes project nsb .
052 loan .
distrest loan .
concessionary loan project .
1 housing loan  service .
housing loan  community .
housing loan  gammana .
2 medical loan .
3 self employment loan .
4 three wheal loan .
5 education loan .
education project .
education loan .
053  service charges .
concessionary loan project .
1 housing loan  service .
housing loan  community .
housing loan  gammana .
2 medical loan .
3 self employment loan .
4 three wheal loan .
5 education loan .
05 4  jayaviru lottery income .
055 housing project .
psychosocial project .
056 advance .
housing project .
education project .
psychosocial project .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
disable war heroes project .
concessionary loan project .
057 festival advance .
general account .
concessionary loan project .
annex 06 .
deposits .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
general account .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
annex 07 .
saving accounts balances .
projects 2011 .
rs .
smib housing project .
nsb education project .
nsb psychosocial project .
bank of ceylon ranaviru rimem benivo project .
annex 08 .
cash balance .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
boc general account .
boc housing project .
boc education project .
boc skill dev project .
boc psychosocial project .
boc ranaviru rimem benivo project .
bocdisable war heroes project .
boc concessionary loan project .
aneex 09 .
current liabilities .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
091 personal emoluments .
salaries payable ac .
accrual  epf .
accrual  etf .
accrual over time  holyday pay .
concessionary loan project .
accrual  allowances .
concessionary loan project .
092 traveling expenses .
concessionary loan project .
093 supplies expenses .
stationary .
fuel  lubricants .
concessionary loan project .
094 maintenance expenses .
vehicle repairs .
building maintenance .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
095 contractual services .
accrual transport rent concessionary loan project .
accrual  telephone ranaviru rimem benivo project .
concessionary loan project .
accrual  electricity concessionary loan project .
accrual  security service expenses .
accrual  janitorial service expenses .
accrual  news paper .
accrual  audit fees .
accrual translations fees concessionary loan project .
accrual  plant  machinary equipment .
accrual  office furniture  equipments .
096 others .
creditors s jayathilake .
097 housing project .
accrual  donation housing .
098 ranaviru rimem benivo project .
government functions .
ranaviru park maintenance .
accrual  meadia activities of all project payable .
accrual  publication royalty .
accrual  bills .
099 concessionary loan project .
refund ac .
other payablles .
aneex 10 .
noncurrent liabilities .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
a provision for gratuity .
balance as as 01st january 2011 .
add .
provision for the period .
less .
gratuity piad .
balance as as 31st december 2011 .
annex 11 .
interest income .
11 1 reposfund management interest income .
general account .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
concessionary loan project .
11 2 treasury bill interest income .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
11 3 fixed deposit interest income .
education project .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
11 4 saving account interest income .
housing project .
education project .
psychosocial project .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
annex 12 .
service charges .
projects 2011 .
rs .
concessionary loan project .
1 housing loan  service .
housing loan  community .
housing loan  gammana .
2 medical loan .
3 self employment loan .
4 three wheal loan .
5 education loan .
annex 13 .
ranaviru flage sales income .
projects 2011 .
rs .
housing project .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
annex 14 .
donations .
projects 2011 .
rs .
14 1 donations local .
education project .
disable war heroes project .
14 2 donations forigen .
education project .
annex 15 .
others .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
other receipt .
general account .
housing project .
psychosocial project .
ranaviru rimem  benivo project .
disable war heroes project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 16 .
personal emoluments .
annex .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
salaries  wages .
epf .
etf .
gratuiry .
over time  holiday pay .
allowances .
annex 17 .
travelling expenses .
projects 2011 .
rs .
domestic .
housing project .
education project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 18 .
supplies .
annex .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
stationery  office requisites .
fuel  lubricants .
entertainment  sundry expenses .
annex 19 .
maintenance expenses .
annex .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
vehicle repairs .
office equipment repairs .
building maintenance .
annex 20 .
contractual services .
annex .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
transport .
telecommunication .
postal charges .
electricity .
water .
news papers .
licencence  insurance .
janitorial service .
security service .
rents .
consultancy service .
annex 21 .
other recurrent expenses .
annex .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
audit fees .
office equipment service .
printing .
translation fees .
training expenses .
others  expenses .
annex 22 .
projects operating expenses .
annex .
projects 2011 .
rs .
housing project .
education project .
psychosocial project .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
disable war heroes project .
project transferred .
annex  23 .
finance cost .
projects 2011 .
rs .
23 1 with holding tax .
housing project .
education project .
23 2 debit tax .
housing project .
education project .
psychosocial project .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
concessionary loan project .
23 3 bad debeters .
concessionary loan project .
annex 24 .
cash and cash equivalents at end of period .
annex .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
short term investment .
saving accounts balances .
cash at bank .
annex 25 .
adjestment .
projects 2011 .
rs .
housing project .
skill dev project .
disable war heroes project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 26 .
salaries  wages .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
general account .
housing project .
education project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 27 .
epf .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
general account 151658331 .
housing project 3297600 .
education project 3957120 .
concessionary loan project .
annex 28 .
etf .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
general account .
housing project .
education project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 29 .
gratuiry .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
general account .
concessionary loan project .
annex 30 .
over time  holiday pay .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
general account .
concessionary loan project .
annex 31 .
allowances .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
general account .
housing project .
psychosocial project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 32 .
stationery  office requisites .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
general account .
housing project .
education project .
psychosocial project .
disable war heroes project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 33 .
fuel  lubricants .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
general account .
housing project .
education project .
psychosocial project .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 34 .
entertainment  sundry expenses .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
general account .
housing project .
disable war heroes project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 35 .
vehicle repairs .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
general account .
housing project .
education project .
psychosocial project .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 36 .
office equipment repairs .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
general account .
housing project .
education project .
disable war heroes project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 37 .
building maintenance .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
general account .
housing project .
psychosocial project .
annex 38 .
contractual services .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
transport .
general account .
concessionary loan project .
annex 39 .
telecommunication .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
general account .
housing project .
education project .
disable war heroes project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 40 .
postal charges .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
general account .
housing project .
education project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 41 .
elecricity expenses .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
general account .
housing project .
education project .
annex 42 .
water .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
general account .
housing project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 43 .
licencence  insurance .
projects 2011 .
rs .
housing project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 44 .
rents .
general account 2011 .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
general account .
housing project .
annex 45 .
consultancy service .
projects 2011 .
rs .
general account .
housing project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 46 .
office equipment service .
projects 2011 .
rs .
concessionary loan project .
annex 47 .
printinng .
projects 2011 .
rs .
general account .
disable war heroes project .
annex  48 .
translation fees .
projects 2011 .
rs .
general account .
housing project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 49 .
training expenses .
projects 2011 .
rs .
general account .
concessionary loan project .
annex 50 .
others  expenses .
general account .
projects 2011 .
rs .
rs .
general account .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
disable war heroes project .
concessionary loan project .
annex 51 .
housing project operating expenses .
projects 2011 .
rs .
donation housing .
development of lands insfastructor facilities .
land expences .
donation for lands .
function organisation .
officers  members training pro .
activated rana viru community   members attraction .
community  district comity meeting .
mobil service  community  pokuru  programme .
community  id card .
community  account opening .
emergency subsidies programme .
dudaru kusalatha programme .
ranaviru suwada .
home  industrial  tranning  programme .
rana viru gammana prejasala .
adarsha ranaviru gammana programme .
organisation works .
annex  52 .
education project operating .
expenses .
projects 2011 .
rs .
donation housing .
function organisation .
nsb hapan scholarship ol al .
froster parents scholarship .
special   scholarship donation .
special donation .
self employment donations .
self employment traning programme .
instructors fees .
donatoin for new computers .
festival activitis of computer center .
computer certificate .
traning instructors .
harf scholaship for technical  educational course .
rana viru gammana  instructors fee .
mapiya surakum programme .
mapiya surakum programme inspection .
annex 53 .
psychosocial project operating expenses .
projects 2011 .
rs .
meadia activities of all project .
data collection .
annex 54 .
ranaviru rimem benivo project operating expenses .
projects 2011 .
rs .
join with national events .
ranaviru park maintenance .
national ranaviru day expenses .
work with external institution1 .
medil programme .
meadia activities of all project .
annex 55 .
disable war heroes project operating expenses .
projects 2011 .
rs .
function organisation .
medical related aids .
medical clinic .
psychosocial programme .
psychosocial skill tranning programme .
donation for disable war heroes bathroom  fittings .
disable war heroes training  programme .
annex 56 .
project transferred .
projects 2011 .
rs .
housing project .
education project .
skill dev project .
psychosocial project .
ranaviru rimem benivo project .
disable war heroes project .
concessionary loan project .
actions was initiated to reactivate the inactive ranaviru community and the revival of community in the anuradhapura and polonnaruwa districts from august 01 to 07 2011 .
the chairperson made a visit to look into the situation of mundalama community  20111116 .
total amount .
expenditure heading 5 financial assistance in emergencies .
expected no .
completed no .
progress .
note .
assistance .
total .
expenditure heading 6 leadership training workshops .
expected no .
completed no .
monthly progress .
note .
expenditure heading 7 national and regional functions .
expected no .
completed no .
progress .
note .
participation in the discussion held in anuradhapura regarding the deyata kirula exhibition 2012 deyata kirula .
total .
other notes .
organized community members for national ranaviru day 2011 .
presidents and secretaries of all community were informed by letters about the national ranaviru day .
obtaining lists of names of members participating in the function from all community .
issued permits to all those members .
arrangements were to ensure the members’ participation in the national ranaviru day ceremony .
letters were sent to community secretaries requesting details of ranaviru community accounts .
letters were sent to community presidents informing of the national tree planting day on 15112011 .
letters requesting the participation of community members to the function to be held at dodamgoda entrance prior to  the  opening ceremony of southern express way were sent  to community  of agalwatta palindanuwara dodamgoda bulathsinhalamatugama walalawita  and kalutara .
arrangements were made to pay the transport and corporate allowance to provincial officers .
arrangements were made to pay monthly allowance to trainees of the national apprenticeship board   while being attached to provincial offices .
coordinated the community meetings that were held at the divisional secretariats by the provincial officers .
remarks .
money allocated for social and cultural division under 6 budget in 2011 was not used for any work this division undertook several activities for the achievement of the targets set by the ranaviru sewa authority for them .
all programmes of the ranaviru sewa authority are operative at the provincial level and that process is based on the relationship between the provincial officers and the ranaviru community .
hence we made aware of provincial officers about all programmes  break down of allocation of provisions  provincial wise  and organization of these programmes in 2011 .
we made arrangements to gather information from ranaviru community  regarding the two prime programmes namely ranaviru community  federation and the annual awareness programme under this action  information in respect of community  office bears and community  accounts was collected .
the mapiya surekuma programme for the benefit of ranaviru parents is operative under the economic development division initial work such as providing necessary information and selection of beneficiaries is the responsibility of the ranaviru community  and provincial officers this also covers compilation of information needs for the voted programme .
programmes are also operative from the children’s scholarship and mental empowerment programmes .
our division  under the allocated vote  was unable to organize any programme other than gathering information .
iiranaviru village programme .
expenditure heading 1  ranaviru village  home gardening programmes rvsa0801 .
1paid  for purchasing tools and seeds for the home gardening programme of nawagampura ranaviru village .
2supplying plants and seeds for home gardening  programme of the walbotale ranaviru village .
3supplying cash prizes to winners from 1st and 6th place of home gardening contest of ampara nawagampura ranaviru village .
4payment of 3rd installment for the construction of textile building of the ibbagamuwa ranaviru village .
5supplying cash prizes for winners of home gardening contest of mapalagama ranaviru village .
6supplying cash prizes for winners from 1st to 6th place of the home gardening contest of the walbotale ranaviru village .
expenditure heading 2  friendship promotion programmes among ranavitu villages rvsa0804 .
1 supplying prizes for the bakmaha ulela conducted by the watupitiwala ranaviru village .
2 supplying prizes for the bakmaha ulela conducted by the digana rajawella ranaviru village .
3 supplying prizes for the aurudu festival conducted by the nugedolawattha ranaviru village .
4 supplying prizes for the bakmaha ulela conducted by the  virusahana ranaviru village .
5 supplying prizes for the bakmaha ulela conducted by  the galnewa ranaviru village .
6 supplying bags for the  salawa ranaviru village .
7 supplying loudspeakers to the salawa ranaviru village .
8 supplying prizes for the bakmaha ulela conducted by the pelendagoda ranaviru village .
9 supplying prizes for the bakmaha ulela conducted by the mapalagama ranaviru village .
10 participating at a function for handing over of deeds to the ranaviru families of the salawa ranaviru village .
11 paying cash for pirith chanting pinkama at the pelendagoda ranaviru village on 25 and 26062011 .
12 paying cash for a pirith chanting pinkama at the lunama ranaviru village on 03082011 .
13 attending foundation laying for housing ceremony at galgamuwa ranaviru village on 27102011 .
14 attending a concert of preschool children of watupitiwala ranaviru village and inspection tour to walbotale ranaviru village .
expenditure heading 3 infrastructure for ranaviru villages rvsa0805 .
1 payment of balance installments for the construction of community hall building at nugedolawatta ranaviru village .
2 granting funds for the construction of community hall building at welawaya ranaviru village .
3 payment of final installment for the construction of community hall building at perahettiya ranaviru village .
4 attending the inauguration of construction of community hall building at hunumulla navy ranaviru village .
5 surveying construction of community hall building at nugadola wattha ranaviru villagetwice .
6 payment of first installment for the construction of community hall building at galnewa ranaviru village .
7 inspection tour on community hall building built at nugedolawattha ranaviru village and ranaviru villages at watupitiwala  keeragala and udupila .
8 paying cash for prizes to children took part in a concert and an art exhibition of preschool at perahettiya ranaviru village .
9 being paid money for renovationof play compound at galnewa ranaviru village .
10 purchasing dancing items for distribution among ranaviru villages .
11 purchasing musical instruments for distribution among ranaviru villages .
12 purchasing sports items for distribution among ranaviru villages .
1 taking necessary action regarding the letters received from ranaviru  villages .
2 taking necessary action regarding the deyata kirula national exhibition .
3 intervening in solving requests and problems forwarded by the ranaviru village members  and coordinating with outside institutions where necessary .
4 letters referred to the kekirawa pradeshiya sabha for necessary action in connection with on going construction work of pre school building at kekirawa ranaviru village .
5 collection of new information of ranaviru villages and computerization of it .
6 informed the ranaviru villages to plan programmes to mark national tree planting day .
7 sought a decision from the evaluation committee to make payments for the establishment of public halts .
8arrangements were made to purchase library books for use of members of  ranaviru villages .
making available funds for construction of community halls in ranaviru villages 2011 .
parahettiyagama ranaviru village .
estimated cost .
share of ranaviru sewa authority .
ranaviru village society has completed all work of community hall .
the ranaviru sewa  authority has ended funding .
nugedolawattha ranaviru village .
share of ranaviru sewa authority .
ranaviru village society has completed all work of community hall .
the ranaviru sewa  authority has ended funding .
wellawaya ranaviru village .
share of ranaviru sewa authority .
ranaviru village society has completed all work of community hall .
the ranaviru sewa  authority has ended funding .
kekirawa ranaviru village .
share of ranaviru sewa authority .
amount paid .
the balance .
the balance will be paid once the work is completed .
ibbagamuwa ranaviru village .
estimated cost .
money has been paid in three installments for community hall and the final installment will be paid once the work is completed .
galnewa ranaviru village .
the balance will be paid once the work is completed .
in addition the following activities were also under took in ranaviru villages .
1 purchasing prizes for preschools .
salawa ranaviru village .
2 supplying loudspeakers .
salawa ranaviru village .
3 financial contributions for new year events .
watupitiwala ranaviru village .
digana rajawella ranaviru village .
nugedolawattha ranaviru village .
virusahana ranaviru village .
galnewa ranaviru village .
pelandagoda ranaviru village .
mapalagama ranaviru village .
4 providing money for pirith pinkam .
pelendagoda ranaviru village .
lunama ranaviru village .
5 being paid money for renovation of play compound .
galnewa ranaviru village .
6 provision of tools and seeds for home gardening .
nawagampura ranaviru village .
mapalagama ranaviru village .
walbotale ranaviru village .
7 funding for construction of community halls .
galnewa ranaviru village .
wellawaya ranaviru village .
iii culture .
literature art festival 2011 ranaviru suwanda programme .
cost .
01 compilation of ranaviru suwanda literature art festival items and preparation of application and approval for the way it is conduced .
02 peperation of paper advertisement calling for applications and publishing it in newspapers conducted by calling quotations .
for the preparation of paper advertisement .
sunday lankadeepa .
sunday silumina .
03 printed applications were sent to the community  villages  sewa vanitha units and welfare services of security forces and defence academy for obtaining entries .
04 categorizing applications and computerization of them .
05 arranging selection competitions .
06 foods obtained from the army .
for food .
07 selecting judging panels and making them aware .
payments for judges for competitions other than written competitions and auxiliary artistes .
fees for written competitions .
08 making children aware of competitions .
09 conducting competitions .
charges for halls rs1040000 .
 .
sound system .
10 preperation of results sheets .
11 drawing cheques for presenting cash prizes .
prize cash .
total cost .
conclusion .
 .
the motive of the ranaviru sewa authority is making the tomorrow of these respectable children a better and secured one .
we consider that the steps taken by the ranaviru sewa authority to make its action plan more resultoriented for accomplishing its aim of meeting needs of war heroes is an achievement in 2011 .
one remarkable feature that was highlighted in 2011 was the implementation of hither to scattered project fields bringing under five principal categories in conformity to the vision of paying gratitude of the nation to the ranaviru name .
we believe that as a result of this action we were able to fulfill the necessities of war heroes more effectively .
the staff of the authority while working with minimum facilities have set an example by extending their services with dedication to achieve goals .
since we have taken several steps to improve the status of office building and staff we expect that we would be able to provide more efficient and useful service for the ranaviru community .
the ranaviru sewa authority also focuses on improving skills and education of ranaviru children .
accordingly actions were initiated to advance the ranaviru children’s language knowledge particularly english knowledge  cultural programmes were conducted in ranviru villages with a view to improve aesthetic skills  and streamlined computer courses for them .
 .
we are pleased to state that we will continue our task of creating a better living condition that care for the dignity of ranaviru community of the nation who have completed a very difficult but a responsible task with dedication that protected the supreme liberty  sovereignty  independence  territorial integrity of sri lanka and have ensured the protection and security of all communities while setting an example to other countries .
ps no 2014286  third instalment  part i  funds  report of the auditor general 2012 .
agrarian development fund  2012 .
1 financial statements .
11 qualified opinion .
in my opinion  except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 12 of this report  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the agrarian development fund as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles .
12 comments of financial statements .
121 accounting deficiencies .
122 unexplained differences .
the following observations are made .
that had not been rectified even by the end of the year under review .
123 accounts receivable and payable .
the following observations are made .
124 noncompliance with laws  rules  regulations  and management decisions .
noncompliances observed are given below .
reference to laws  rules and regulations .
noncompliance .
a public finance circular no pf423 of 22 december 2006 paragraph 4 3 c .
a statement of changes in the accumulated fund had not been furnished separately .
b financial regulation 371 5 .
2 financial review .
21 financial results .
3 operating review .
31 management inefficiencies .
the following observations are made .
a course of action for the efficient collection of those installments had not been formulated for the recovery .
this amount in arrears represented 51 percent of the total amount of loans granted .
d the loans granted for trailers of two wheel tractors for 2 districts had been totally in arrears while the recoveries of 15 districts had been at a minimum level of 10 per cent .
4 accountability and good governance .
41 budgetary control .
the following observations are made .
b since there was a significant variance between the budgeted and the actual figures  the budget had not been used as an effective management control .
5 systems and controls .
deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the commissioner general from time to time .
special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control .
a recovery of acreage tax .
b settlement of deposit accounts .
c recovery of loans .
d utilization of assets .
e grant of advances .
p s no 2013279  second instalment – part ii  state corporations  report of the auditor general 2012 .
ayurvedic medical council 2012 .
1 financial statements .
audit opinion .
11 qualified opinion .
in my opinion  except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 22 of this report  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the ayurvedic medical council as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles .
12 comments on financial statements .
121 accounting deficiencies .
the following accounting deficiencies were observed .
122 lack of evidence for audit .
an updated register on information in respect of ayurvedic practitioners  dispensers  and nurses registered in the ayurvedic medical council as at 31 december 2012 had not been presented for audit .
further  information on registered ayurvedic practitioners published via the internet had not been updated and an updated register had not been prepared according to each district .
123 noncompliance with laws  rules  regulations and management decisions .
noncompliances with the following laws  rules  regulations and management decisions were revealed .
a even though in terms of section 111 e of part iii of the ayurvedic act no 31 of 1961  03 members elected out of registered ayurvedic practitioners should be included in the composition of the council  no practitioners registered in the council had been included in it .
b according to the ayurvedic medical council paper no 141308 3 dated 15 july 2005  practitioners should renew their registration once in five years with effect from 01 january 2006 .
further  despite having decided to charge a registration fee for same  it had not been done even by 31 december 2012 .
in addition  legal obstructions existed in implementing this decision and amendments regarding the said matter had been forwarded to the department of legal draftsman .
even though it had been informed that the medical council had decided on 03 april 2012 to carry out future activities after approval of revised ethics  the said legal drafts had not been approved up to june 2013 .
02 financial review .
21 financial results .
22 analytical financial review .
operating activities of the council during the year under review and the analytical review of financial results as compared with the preceding year are given below .
year 2012 .
year 2011 .
decrease increase .
percentage decrease increase .
income–government provision .
other operating income .
total income .
administration expenditure .
other operating expenditure .
total expenditure .
annual deficit surplus .
3 operating review .
31 performance .
311 registration of practitioners .
practitioners on registration of doctors during the year under review and two preceding years are given below .
as at 31 december 2012 .
as at 31 december 2011 .
as at 31 december 2010 .
general physician .
degree holders .
diploma holders .
traditional .
traditional special .
snake bite sarpavisha .
fractures  dislocation kadum bindum .
eye diseases akshi roga .
skin diseases charma roga .
boils  ulcers gedi vana .
hydrophobia jalabhithika .
burns  scalds davum pilissum .
mental diseases manasika roga .
hos compresses  moxibustions vidum pilissum .
other .
total .
number of traditionalspecial practitioners for eye diseases akshi roga  skin diseases charma roga  boils  ulcers gedi vana  and burns  scalds davum pilissum had increased by a number less than 05 in the year 2012 in relation to the year 2011 and traditionalspecial practitioners had not been registered under hydrophobia jalabhithika  hos compresses  moxibustions vidum pilissum and other  after the year 2010 .
registration of practitioners in each year for the past five years is given below .
practitioners .
degree .
diploma .
traditional .
traditional special .
following observations are made in this regard .
a in relation to year 2008  registration of all types of other practitioners except diploma holders had decreased in the year 2012 .
b a decrease of registration of traditional special practitioners had been revealed and it had been 129 in the year 2008  while in the year 2011 it had decreased to 68 and increased to 85 again in the year 2012 .
c registration of degree medical practitioners in the year 2009 had been 190 and it had gradually decreased to 135 by the year 2012 .
312 appointing committees .
even though the following subcommittees had been appointed continuously from the year 2008 to the year 2012  the intended purpose had not been achieved due to the committee being inactive .
a the professional program on the indigenous medicine for fractures and dislocations .
b committee on establishing data bases related to indigenous traditional knowledge .
c subcommittee on the conservation of the medical practice for hos compresses  moxibustions which are on the verge of nonexistence .
d revision of the syllabus for the registration of traditional medical practitioners .
e subcommittee for the conservation of veterinary medical practice .
313 action plan and the progress of the year 2012 .
following activities mentioned in the annual action plan in the year 2012 had not been carried out .
a enforcement of the legal framework of the ayurvedic medical council  and formulation and implementation of the regulations under the ayurvedic act .
b improving the process of granting professional accreditation .
c categorization of medical practitioners based on existing professional qualifications .
d identification of the code of professional ethics of the ayurvedic medical practitioners .
e establishing a process of investigating the professional behaviour and conduct of the ayurvedic medical practitioners .
f improvement of performance through updating the assets and facilities of the ayurvedic medical council .
g take action to minimize irregularities occurring in ayurvedic conservation councils and to build up a direct relationship with the council .
h professional development programmes .
i special programmes .
j entering the data in respect of the ayurvedic medical practitioners in the official web site .
even though the total number of medical practitioners registered by 31 december 2012 was 20 713  the number of names of the medical practitioners entered in the official web site of the ayurvedic medical council was 3 000 .
this web site has been launched on 27 september 2010 .
32 staff administration .
particulars on the staff of the medical council as at 31 december 2012 are given below .
position .
approved cadre .
actual cadre .
no of vacancies .
annual salary .
registrar .
management assistant .
office labourers .
4 accountability and good governance .
41 internal audit .
following observations are made .
a an internal audit unit had not been established in the institution .
b even though the internal audit of the ayurvedic medical council should be carried out by the ministry of indigenous medicine  an internal audit relevant to the year 2012 had not been carried out .
however  an audit had been carried out by the ministry of indigenous medicine only in one instance in the year 2011 .
42 audit committees .
audit committees had not been established in the institution and the medical council had participated in the audit and management committee conducted by the ministry of indigenous medicine .
5 systems and controls .
deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the chairman of the council from time to time .
special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control .
a accounting .
b update of the registration of ayurvedic medical practitioners .
p s no 2014325  third instalment  part v  funds  report of the auditor general 2012 .
excise reward fund  2012 .
1 financial statements .
11 qualified opinion .
in my opinion  except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 12 of this report  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the excise reward fund as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles .
12 comments on financial statements .
121 accounting deficiencies .
the following observations are made .
a a main journal had not been maintained in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles for rectification of accounting errors  adjustments and closing entries .
122 noncompliance with laws  rules  regulations and management decisions .
the following noncompliances were observed .
reference to laws  rules  regulations etc .
noncompliance .
a section 17of the tobacco tax act  no 8 of 1999 .
out of the fines collected under the tobacco tax act  25 percent can be used for the payment of rewards .
although a reward fund according to a scheme proposed by the minister and under the control of the commissioner general of excise should be established as per the section 17 ii of the act  such fund had not been established even by 31 october 2013 .
b financial regulations 756 .
c treasury circular no 1a1200202 of 28 november 2002 .
a register of fixed assets had not been maintained for computers  computer accessories  and software .
d management audit circular no  dma200902 of 01 september 2009 .
a register of fixed assets had not been maintained for the assets purchased under the excise reward fund .
2 financial review .
21 financial results .
3 operating review .
31 performance .
the following observations are made .
4 accountability and good governance .
41 budgetary control .
the methodology for the payment of rewards for commendable work  acts of bravery  or acts of special recognition in terms of section 45 of the excise notification no 818 of 04 march 1994 had not been made effective even by 31 october 2013 .
42 corporate plan‍ .
a corporate plan had not been prepared for the achievement of the vision and mission of the fund ‍ .
5 systems and controls .
deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the commissioner general of excise from time to time .
special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control .
a accounting .
b establishment of the reward fund under the tobacco tax act .
c assets control .
p s no 2014310  second instalment – part xi  state corporations  report of the auditor general 2012 .
national design centre  2012 .
1 financial statements .
11 qualified opinion .
in my opinion  except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 12 of this report  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the national design centre as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with sri lanka accounting standards for small and medium enterprises .
12 comments on financial statements .
121 unreconciled control accounts .
123 accounts receivable and payable .
the following observations are made .
124 lack of evidence for audit .
the evidence indicated against the following items appearing in the financial statements had not been furnished to audit .
item .
value .
evidence not made available .
rs .
a fixed assets .
i register of fixed assets .
ii board of survey reports .
iii title deeds .
b debtors .
confirmation of balances .
c creditors .
confirmation of balances .
125 noncompliance with laws  rules  regulations and management decisions .
the noncompliances observed during the course of audit are given below .
reference to laws  rules  regulations  etc .
noncompliance .
a treasury circular no 1a1200202 of 28 november 2002 .
a register for computers  computer accessories  and software had not been maintained .
b public enterprises circular no ped12 of 02 june 2003 section 651 .
even though the financial statements and the draft annual report for the year under review should have been presented to the auditor general within 60 days after the close of the financial year  only the financial statements had been presented on 26 april 2013 .
2 financial review .
21 financial results .
3 operating review .
31 performance .
the following observations are made .
a the number of designs and inventions produced by the moratuwa and nattarampotha project by 31 december of the year under review had been 672 and out of that 381 had been handed over to the workshop .
the inventions handed over included 205 inventions needed for the craftsmen and 86 graphic designs .
the number of new designs and inventions of the preceding year had been 679 and number of design samples had been 321  and as compared with that the new designs and the inventions of the year under review had decreased by 1 percent .
an adequate course of action had been launched with the national crafts council to bring all these designs for use by the craftsmen .
there were 10 designers with the centre and a target of a minimum number of 05 designs per month had been set for each designer .
‍however  three designers had failed to reach that target .
furthermore  a methodology to follow up on the number of designs popularised among the craftsmen and the number of designs which had been favoured by the craftsmen had not been identified .
as such how effective the new designs produced had been  was problematic .
b out of the programmes targeted in terms of the annual action plan  03 programmes had not been executed while the progress of the two remained programmes had been 20 percent and 40 percent .
details appear below .
activities .
expected target for the year 2012 .
targets achieved as at 31 december 2012 .
percentage of achievement .
recurrent activities .
training of trainers .
number of new design training programmes .
number of participants .
providing training and technology for development of designs .
diploma in higher national designs .
intermediate diploma in national designs .
providing marketing facilities for new designs .
number of handicrafts products prepared for exhibition .
number of handicrafts craftsmen participated .
number of general public participated .
number of meetings of buyers and sellers .
number of beneficiaries .
number of display centres based on tourists .
supply of designs market facilities .
c the training programmes targeted for holding under 09 sections within the period according to the action plan for the year 2012 had not been held as planned .
32 management inefficiencies .
new showroom  battaramulla .
even though popularisation of new designs through the new showroom of the centre had been the main objective according to the action plan  the said objective could not be achieved as the showroom had been closed down in the year under review .
a the new showroom commenced in the year 2011 had been closed down since august 2012 .
33 idle and underutilised assets .
the following observations are made .
however  that remained idle over a period of 03 years .
even though a period of 03 years had elapsed after the break down of about 20 feet of the side wall constructed near the sports ground and the car park  that had not been repaired .
e the officer in charge of the laboratory of the nattarampotha branch had proceeded abroad at the beginning of the year 2010 and that officer had not taken action to handover the inventory goods .
34 staff administration .
the particulars of the staff of the centre for the year 2012 are given below .
category of employees .
approved .
actual .
vacancies .
executive level .
middle level .
secondary level .
primary level .
actions had not been taken to fill 09 vacancies in the middle level and 15 vacancies in the secondary level .
4 accountability and good governance .
41 action plan .
even though the centre had prepared an action plan for the year under review  it had failed to achieve the expected objectives .
certain training programmes had not executed at all .
42 procurement plan .
even though the centre had prepared and presented a procurement plan for the year 2012  that had not been prepared based on the action plan of the centre in terms of the national budget circular .
43 budgetary control .
significant variances were observed between the budgeted and the actual income and expenditure  thus indicating that the budget had not been made use of as an effective instrument of management control .
44 internal audit .
even though internal audit programmes had been prepared for the year 2012  the internal audit had not been done according to the programmes .
5 systems and controls .
deficiencies in systems and control observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the chairman of the centre from time to time .
special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control .
a accounting .
b balances receivable and payable .
c assets control .
d budgetary control .
e conduct of training programmes .
ceylon ceramics corporation  2012 .
1 financial statements .
11 adverse audit opinion .
in my opinion  because of the significance of the matters described in paragraph 12  of this report  the financial statements do not give a true and fair view of the financial position of the ceylon ceramics corporation as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with sri lanka accounting standards .
12 comments on financial statements .
121 sri lanka accounting standards .
the financial statements for the year under review had not been prepared based on the new sri lanka accounting standards effective from 01 january 2012 .
122 accounting deficiencies .
the following observations are made .
however  it had not been brought to account .
however  it had not been brought to account .
the value of 13 motor vehicles currently in use by the corporation had not been included in the register of fixed assets as well as the financial statements .
124 accounts receivable and payable .
the following observations are made .
c bangadeniya factory .
i the above factory had been closed down over 10 years ago .
126 noncompliance with laws  rules  regulations and management decisions .
the following instances of noncompliance were observed during the course of audit .
reference to laws  rules  regulations  etc .
value .
details .
a section 83 of the public enterprises circulars no ped12 of 02 june 2003 .
b nation building tax act  no 9 of 2009 .
c value added tax act no 14 of 2002 .
d economic service charges act no 13 of 2006 .
e national defence levy act no 36 of 1995 .
f goods and services tax act no 34 of 1996 .
g inland revenue act no 10 of 2006 .
h western provincial finance statute no 6 of 1990 .
2 financial review .
21 financial results .
22 analytical financial review .
the following observations are made .
the retirement of 497 employees in the year under review and the production done on the piece rate basis had affected the decrease of the cost of sales and the total expenditure by 50 per cent and 41 per cent respectively .
b even though the corporation incurred losses continuously up to the year 2011  it was observed that the corporation earned profits in the year 2012 due to the reforms undertaken .
year .
profit loss .
rs millions .
23 analysis of financial ratios .
current ratio .
the standard current ratio of safe institution should be 21 .
loan ratio .
the standard total assets to external loan ratio of a business institution should be 11 .
as a high gearing ratio is indicated  the possibility of that affecting the going concern of the corporation cannot be ruled out .
debtors turnover ratio .
the debt recovery period had increased from 91 days to 255 days .
number of days of debtors turnover .
255 days .
91 days .
stock turnover ratio .
time taken for converting the manufactured stocks to sales had increased from 77 days to 90 days .
number of days of stock turnover .
90 days .
77 days .
3 operating review .
31 performance .
the following observations are made .
a seven tile factories maintaining the production work of the corporation exist and out of that 05 factories had incurred losses in the year under review .
the profitability of those in the 05 preceding years had been as follows .
tile factory .
profit loss for the year 2012 .
weuda .
elayapattuwa .
bingiriya .
mahiyangana .
yatiyana .
uswewa .
eragama .
b the estimated production of tiles  bricks and other material by the 05 operating factories in the year under review had been 9 573 366 .
the actual production units had been 3 112 050  or 33 per cent of the estimated production .
details appear below .
factory .
estimated production units .
actual units manufactured .
deficit units .
eragama .
bingiriya .
mahiyangaaya .
uswewa .
yatiyana .
total .
32 management inefficiencies .
ten cases had been filed in the labour tribunals and several other courts relating to the respective factories  by the retired employees of the corporation against the corporation in connection with the nonextension of their services and the arrears of gratuity .
those had not been disclosed in the accounts .
33 identified losses .
the following observations are made .
that had not been paid even up to 30 september 2013 .
34 existence of the corporation .
in view of the following factors it was observed that the existence of the corporation is uncertain .
b the total assets to the total liabilities ratio of the corporation for the year under review and the preceding year were 13 .
c during the year under review  497 employees out of a total of 540 employees of the corporation were voluntarily compensated and retired .
d out of the 09 factories owned by the corporation  only 07 factories are in production at present and the balance 02 factories had been closed down due to the following reasons .
factory .
year of closing down .
reasons for closing down .
oddusuddan .
war situation .
bangadeniya .
scarcity of raw material .
4 accountability and good governance .
41 corporate plan .
a corporate plan for the corporation had not been prepared .
42 action plan .
the corporation had not prepared an action plan for the year under review .
43 audit committees .
according to paragraph 2 of the treasury circular no pfps04xii of 28 august 2006  if audit committee of the corporation is not in operation  such committee should be established and ensure that the committee meets regularly and take follow up action on the recommendation of the committee .
nevertheless  the management of the corporation had not paid attention to the appointment of the committee even up to the end of the year under review .
44 procurement plan .
the corporation had not prepared a procurement plan for the year under review .
45 budgetary control .
a budget for the year under review had not been prepared .
as such  the attention of the corporation had not been paid to making use of a budget as an instrument of management control .
5 systems and controls .
deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the chairman from time to time .
special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control .
a accounting .
b utilization of assets .
c debtors and creditors control .
d staff management .
e achievement of production targets .
p s no 2014286  third instalment  part i  funds  report of the auditor general 2012 .
construction guarantee fund .
1 financial statements .
11 qualified opinion .
in my opinion  except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 12 of this report  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the construction guarantee fund as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles .
12 comments on financial statements .
121 accounting deficiencies .
the following observations are made .
a a sum of paid to construction service providers during the year under review as encashment of security bonds had been written off against the profit for the year under review instead of being debited to the debtors account in order to recover it from the contractors .
the chairman had informed that initial action had been taken at present to discuss with the institution relating to the security bonds concerned and to take appropriate subjects for arbitration .
b salaries  wages and other allowances totaling paid based on external services had been classified as research and development expenditure instead of being classified as personnel emoluments .
122 noncompliance with laws  rules  regulations .
the following noncompliances were observed in audit .
reference to laws  rules  regulations etc .
noncompliance .
paragraph 221 a of the public enterprises circular no ped 12 dated 02 june 2003 .
annual accounts for the years from 2000 to 2011 had not been tabled in parliament .
public enterprises circular no ped 38 dated 14 july 2006 .
it had not been registered at the department of inland revenue relating to value added tax whereas tax had not been recovered from the officers and remitted under pay as you earn tax .
public enterprises circular no ped 39 dated 09 october 2006 .
action had been taken to assign a vehicle to a consultant which was obtained on the basis of monthly hire of .
2 financial review .
21 financial results .
the reasons mainly attributed for the increase of the financial results are given below .
item of income expenditure .
favourable adverse effect .
rs .
increase of income from surety bonds .
increase of income from the treasury bills .
increase of income from fixed deposits .
increase of income from loan interest .
decrease in write off of income from loan interest .
decrease in over provision for doubtful loans .
decrease in miscellaneous income .
increase in salaries and wages .
increase in other expenditure .
3 operating review .
31 transactions of contentious nature .
the following observations are made .
a even though preparation of financial statements is a normal duty of the financial controller  an additional charges amounting to had been paid to the former financial controller for preparing financial statements for the year under review .
b a sum of had been paid to the institute of construction  training and development during the year under review in respect of office rent  value added tax and electricity charges for the years 2013 and 2014 without entering into a formal rent agreement .
however  action had not been taken to obtain the additional space up to the end of the month of april 2013 .
c a sum of had been paid to an outside individual  who had been selected without following proper procurement procedure  for preparing corporate plan for the period 2012  2016 .
it was not confirmed that action had been taken to review properly and implement this corporate plan or to evaluate the performance .
however  action had not been taken up to the date of this report to obtain the final report including the above criteria and publish it .
further  fruitfulness of this expenditure had not been confirmed .
a official receipt had not been obtained for the charges paid to the tourist hotel whereas bills had not been submitted in respect of actual expenditure spent for transport and incidental expenditure .
even though the entire had been accounted for as expenditure  information relating to the actual amount spent for the workshop  number of persons participated  and fruitfulness of the workshop had not been submitted for audit .
f the total hire charges paid during the year 2012 for a motor vehicle obtained on the basis of paying monthly hire charges without following proper procurement procedure amounted .
further  details of monthly running charts relating to utilization of vehicles had not been prepared showing the distance travelled along with the milometer and utilization of fuel .
accordingly  it was unable to assure the fruitfulness of the utilization of vehicles .
32 personnel administration .
cost of personnel for the year under review is given below .
the following observations are made relating to this cost of personnel .
contract .
external service .
total .
number of employees .
basic salary .
provident fund .
cost of living allowance .
incentive .
total cost .
cost per person .
a even though all the public enterprises should restructure their organization structures in accordance with the management services circular no 30 dated 2006 september 22 and in terms of letter no pedpu dated 08 july 2009 of the department of public enterprises and action should have been taken to revise recruitment promotion procedure  cadre and salary scales and to obtain the recommendation of the national salaries and cadre commission and approval of the department of management services  action had not been taken accordingly .
the chairman had informed that the attorney general had given advice stating that it was not necessary to implement the circular relating to staff and the board of trustees had taken action according to their discretion under item 4 of the deed of trust .
b extension of service period of the staff recruited on contract basis had not been done according to the proper procedure .
c salaries had been paid to the staff recruited on the basis of external services without assessing the performance .
4 deficiencies in systems and controls .
the following observations are made .
a applications for security bonds had not been documented and the applications which were rejected had not been filed by pointing out the reasons for such rejections .
therefore  reasons for rejection of applications which were rejected had not been subjected to evaluation according to the proper internal control procedure .
b internal control procedure had not been followed so as to review or carry out technical audit whether action had been taken with proper responsibilities and transparency by the officers who were received and supervised the security bonds for which the service providers applied requesting payments on the basis of unsuccessful contracts .
the chairman informed that the failure of contracts so far while granting security bond by the institution had been limited up to 014 per cent even though the minimum percentage of internationally accepted tendency for failure of contracts was from 08 per cent to 1 per cent .
c the control of petty cash imprest had not been formalized due to the following matters .
i action had not been taken to maintain a register of petty cash imprest or to carry out adequate supervision for the year under review .
ii out of the petty cash imprest amounting to retained during the year under review  a balance exceeding had been retained continuously as cash in hand .
iii even though there were unusual delays in settlement of advances  supervision had not been carried out in this regard .
p s no 2014311 third instalment  part iii  funds  report of the auditor general 2012 .
customs officers reward fund  2012 .
1 financial statements .
11 opinion .
in my opinion  except for the effect of the matter described in paragraph 12 of this report  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the customs officers reward fund as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles .
12 comments on financial statements .
121 lack of evidence for audit .
2 financial review .
21 financial results .
3 operating review .
31 performance .
a 50 per cent portion of the government tax revenue  penalties imposed  confiscated money  and proceeds of the sale of confiscated goods  etc imposed on illegal actions such as the customs tax frauds  illegal imports  breach of regulations on import control detected by the customs officers are credited to this fund for the payment of rewards of the officers and the informants .
according to the information furnished  the particulars of income  expenditure  and the net operating results for the year ended 31 december 2012 and the 6 preceding years are given below .
year .
income .
expenditure .
total expenditure surplus deficit .
payments to officers .
payments to informants .
withholding tax department of inland revenue .
others .
the following observations are made .
the money not collected by the officers from the lists of rewards issued by the department from time to time is credited to this account .
when those officers make subsequent claims for the money  such payments are debited to this account .
nevertheless  it was observed that proper steps had not been taken on the unsettled amounts remaining over long periods relating to the redeposited rewards .
32 transactions of contentious nature .
the following observations are made .
a sri lanka customs had not taken the instructors of the commissioner general of inland revenues into consideration in deducting the pay as you earn tax on the rewards paid to the officers .
actions had been taken by considering the rewards paid as one off payment  but in the cases of payment in several instances  those had not been accumulated and the final amount of tax that should be charged had not been computed .
a large amount of tax revenue receivable by the government had been deprived of to the government due to the separate computation of the pay as you earn tax and recovering only the relevant amount of that payment in the case of payment of rewards in several instances .
the unavailability of a proper procedure for the accurate computation of the tax to the government from the customs officers receiving a number of allowances is a contentious matter .
b in terms of the section 1532 of the customs amendment act  no 83 of 1988  regulations have been made in such manner to enable the allocation of 50 per cent of the balance of fines income for the reward fund once all expenses are deducted and to distribute them to officers and informants as gifts .
accordingly  though the overtime paid from the fund to all officers who conducted the investigation should be deducted from the fines income  it had not been so done and brought to account as an expenditure of the customs overtime fund .
as records of the overtime cost on the investigations had not been separately maintained  the overtime cost incurred on investigations could not be computed .
c according to the prevailing customs rewards scheme  the payment of rewards to the officers is not made only from the fines imposed on the parties involved in customs duty frauds  but also from 50 per cent of the tax receivable by the government from those parties .
therefore  the responsible parties have not paid their attention to the contribution for the protection of the public revenue .
d it has been pointed out from time to time in the audit that there have been numerous instances where customs officers have been rewarded with tax revenues and penalties levied from various parties without special customs investigation .
therefore  such heavy expenditure incurred by the fuel fund for the departmental fuel expenditure under such circumstances is a contentious matter in the audit .
4 accountability and good governance .
41 budgetary control .
significant variances were observed between the budgeted and the actual income and expenditure for the year under review  thus indicating that the budget had not been made use of as an effective instrument of control .
5 systems and controls .
deficiencies observed during the course of the audit were brought to the notice of the director general of customs from time to time .
special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control .
a accounting .
b distribution of rewards and expenditure control .
p s no 2014317 third instalment  part iv  funds  report of the auditor general 2012 .
customs overtime and cargo examination fees fund  2012 .
1 financial statements .
11 qualified opinion .
in my opinion  except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 12 of this report  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the customs overtime and cargo examination fees fund as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles .
12 comments on financial statements .
121  presentation of financial statements .
122 unidentified transactions .
this had been continuously pointed out in the audit reports for the years 2008 to 2011 .
though the director general of customs stated that action will be taken to rectify that in the subsequent year  no action had been taken even during the year 2012 to settle the matter .
123 accounts receivable .
the following observations are made .
adequate provisions for bad debts had not been made for those balances that were uncertain to recover .
a formal course of action had not been taken even during the year under review for the recovery of the money from the debtors existing for more than 07 years .
similarly  action had not been taken to ascertain the existence of certain institution shown as debtors .
attention had not been paid to the possibility of identifying and settling those balances .
c security deposits had not been obtained in connection with certain debtors  balances .
124 special deposits and investments .
the following observations are made in this connection .
a the documentary information in support of the purpose of obtaining the deposits had not been furnished to audit .
b action had not been taken to find out whether the depository institutions are in existence and those deposits had not been confirmed as refundable deposits .
c as this money had been invested in saving accounts over a long period  a very low interest had been earned and attention had not been paid to deploy the money in other suitable investments .
125 lack of evidence for audit .
evidence indicated against the following items had not been furnished to audit .
item .
amount .
rs .
evidence not made available .
sundry debtors .
confirmation of balances relating to outstanding debts of 158 institutions .
eight items of accounts .
confirmation of balances .
126 noncompliance with laws  rules  regulations and management decisions .
the following noncompliances were observed .
reference to laws  rules  regulations and management decision .
noncompliance .
a financial regulations .
financial regulation 1752 .
action for recovery of arrears amounting to as at 31 december 2012 had not been taken .
b public administration circular no 92009 of 16 april 2009 and the sri lanka customs circular no 012010 of 19 february 2010 .
even though the punch card machines had been introduced by sri lanka customs  none of the officers of sri lanka customs had used the punch card machine during the year under review and no action whatsoever had been taken in that connection .
127 transactions not supported by authority .
internal regulations had been made for enabling the customs officers to claim overtime exceeding 600 hours per month at 12 to 27 hours per day and the formal approval obtained for that had not been furnished to audit .
2 financial review .
21 financial results .
this deterioration had been mainly due to the decrease of the income of the fund by 27 per cent and the increase of the expenditure by 24 per cent as compared with the preceding year .
3 operating review .
31 performance .
a overtime fund .
the money collected as overtime from the external clearance centres and the other institutions to defray the expenditure incurred in the performance of duties during the time in addition to the normal duty times of the customs officers and for the performance of duties on the dates in which the customs is closed for duties is credited to this fund and the payments made to the customs staff for such overtime service performed are considered as the expenditure of the fund .
an analysis of the financial results of the overtime fund for the year ended 31 december 2012 and the 09 preceding years is given below .
year .
income .
32 transactions of contentious nature .
the following observations are made .
a the contentious nature of the overtime payment process of sri lanka customs was continuously pointed out in the previous years  audit reports and overtime had been paid in an unrealistic manner even during the year under review .
a sample audit check relating to 06 officers of the export division for the three months from january to march 2012 revealed that each officer had been on overtime duty in the ranges of 600 hours to 663 hours in each of the three months .
further  the average overtime duty of these officers per day per officer had exceeded 20 hours .
b those officers had been paid cargo examination fees in an unusual manner in respect of the period for which the above overtime had been paid .
c even though requests were made to produce the documents to audit in support of the payment of cargo examination fees relating to the bonds and baggage division during february to april 2012  such information was not produced even up to october 2013 .
though it was reported that the information relating to the exports division for the years 2008 and 2009 had been deleted  such information for the year 2010 and 2011 had not been also produced to audit .
d the above overtime and cargo examination fees had been paid in addition to the monthly salaries  incentives  and rewards paid to the officers .
the overtime earnings of most officers had exceeded their consolidated salaries .
these payments made to the officers on the basis on being on duty throughout the year without obtaining leave is an unrealistic situation .
e even though the outdated regulations on overtime and external examination fees should be amended to rectify the above situation no action whatsoever had been taken in that connection .
33 management inefficiencies .
the following observation is made .
the unutilized money of the fund had been brought forward from year to year as treasury deposits .
the balances of the deposit account and the balance of the fund indicated improvement as shown below .
it was observed that necessary steps had not been taken by discussing the matter with the treasury .
overtime fund .
cargo examination fees fund .
balance of the treasury deposit .
4 accountability and good governance .
budgetary control .
material variances were observed between the income and expenditure according to the budget and the actual income and expenditure  thus indicating that the budget had not been made use of as an effective instrument of management control .
5 systems and controls .
deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the director general of customs from time to time .
special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control .
a arrears of income .
b overtime payments .
c accounting .
d container examinations .
e staff administration .
p s no 2014324  second instalment – part xv  state corporations  report of the auditor general 2012 .
defence services command and staff college  2012 .
1 financial statements .
11 qualified opinion .
in my opinion  except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 12 of this report  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the defence services command and staff college as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with sri lanka public sector accounting standards .
12 comments on financial statements .
121 accounting deficiencies .
the following observations are made .
a inclusion of motor vehicles not belonging to the college in the financial statements .
b deposit account .
the retention money payable to the contractors and the deductions made from the staff for nopay leave had been credited to the deposit account under noncurrent liabilities .
as a sum of deducted in connection with nopay leave from february 2010 in january 2012 had been credited to the deposit account referred to above  the noncurrent liabilities had been overstated by that amount .
122 noncompliance with laws  rules  regulations and management decisions .
instances of noncompliance with laws  rules  regulations and management decisions observed during the course of audit are given below .
reference to laws  rules  regulations  etc .
noncompliance .
a section 81 of the finance act no 38 of 1971 .
even though the budget for every financial year should be prepared and approved by the governing body not later than three months prior to the beginning of the relevant financial year  the budget for the year 2012 had been approved on 27 february 2013 .
b section 521 of the public enterprises circular no ped12 of 02 june 2003 .
the budgeted balance sheet  the budgeted income and expenditure statement  and the budgeted cash flow statement had not been included in the budget prepared for the year under review .
2 financial review .
21 financial results .
according to the financial statements presented  the financial results generated from the operations for the year under review amounted to a deficit of as compared with the corresponding deficit of for the preceding year  thus indicating a deterioration of in the financial results .
22 analytical financial review .
the increase in certain items of expenditure as compared with the preceding year by a sum of had been the main reason for the deterioration of in the financial results .
3 operating review .
31 performance .
the number of students who participated in the degree courses conducted by the staff college in the year under review had been 102 as compared with the participation of 83 students in the preceding year .
according to the comprehensive income statement  the total expenditure for the year under review amounted to and as such the cost per graduate amounted to management inefficiencies .
the following observations are made .
a inspection of warehouse items .
i the accuracy of the balance of stocks shown in the balance sheet as at 31 december 2012 could not be established as the stock books had not been maintained externally from the stores .
ii separate inventory registers had not been maintained for recording the particulars on assets used by each division of the college .
33 operating inefficiencies .
the following observations are made .
million due to cost escalations and delays .
due to the delay in the construction works  it had not been possible to expand the courses expected for commencement in the year 2013 .
34 underutilisation of funds .
as the capital grants provided annually by the general treasury was not utilized by the college  it was continuously credited again to the treasury at the end of the year .
35 utilization of motor vehicles .
the ministry of defence and the sri lanka army had made available 17 and 14 motor vehicles respectively to the college and the ownership of the motor vehicles had not been transferred to the college .
a three wheeler motor vehicles condemned had been left parked since 17 december 2011 .
even though all the motor vehicles used by the college should be controlled by one division  it had been decentralized in the way of that the motor vehicles of sri lanka army and the ministry of defence were being controlled by the transport division and the 04 motor vehicles supplied by sri lanka air force and 02 motor vehicles supplied by sri lanka navy were being controlled by their respective wings .
36 staff management .
even though the approved staff of the college had been 100  only a staff of 92 had been deployed .
4 accountability and good governance .
41 annual action plan .
an action plan for the identification of the financial targets and the physical targets according to the respective periods had not been prepared .
the performance reports had not been prepared in a manner to facilitate comparison with the action plan .
42 budgetary control .
it was observed that the budget had not been used as an effective instrument of management control because of a significant variance between the estimated provision and actual expenditure .
43 tabling of annual reports in the parliament .
in terms of section 653 of the public enterprises circular no ped12 of 02 june 2003  the annual report on the activities of the defence services command and staff college and the accounts should be tabled in parliament within 150 days after the closure of the financial year .
nevertheless  the annual reports for the years 2010 and 2011 had not been tabled in parliament even by 09 november 2013 .
5 systems and controls .
deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the chairman of the defence services command and staff college from time to time .
special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control .
a utilization of capital provision .
b staff control .
c construction works .
d stores control .
p s no 2014321  second instalment – part xii  state corporations  report of the auditor general 2012 .
general sir john kotalawala defence university  2012 .
1 financial statements .
11 qualified opinion .
in my opinion  except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 12 of this report  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the general sir john kotalawala defence university as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with sri lanka accounting standards .
12 commenting on financial statements .
121 sri lanka accounting standards .
the following observations are made .
actions in terms of sri lanka accounting standard no 16 had not been taken to revalue and account for those assets .
122 accounting deficiencies .
the following observations are made .
a understatements and overstatements .
the vicechancellor informed the audit that sri lanka army had agreed for the write off of this amount .
b inappropriate disclosures .
123 lack of evidence for audit .
the value of the following constructions shown under the “workinprogress’ from the year 2011 remained unchanged even by 31 december 2012 .
account balance .
balance as at 31 december 2011 and as at 31 december 2012 .
rs .
buildings  6 388 934 .
official quarters of married officers  230 870 .
construction of quarters of married officers  5 033 574 .
the evidence required for the identification of these amounts had not been furnished to audit .
124 noncompliances with laws  rules  regulations and management decisions .
the following noncompliances were observed during the course of the audit .
reference to laws  rules  regulations and management decisions .
noncompliance .
procurement guidelines 2006 .
i guidelines 2141  341 and 43 .
it was observed that those advances had ranged between 50 per cent to 100 per cent of the value of each purchase .
iii guideline 891 .
2 financial review .
21 financial results .
the improvement of the financial results for the year under review as compared with the preceding year was observed as due to the increase of income in the year under review .
22 legal actions initiated against or by the institution .
the following observations are made .
a three external parties had filed three cases in courts against the university by claiming ownership to the properties of the university .
3 operating review .
31 performance .
actions had not been taken in the year under review for the execution of the following activities included under the infrastructure development in the corporate plan for execution in the year 2012 .
a construction of a separate building complex for the postgraduate academic division .
b construction of a six storeyed laboratory for the faculty of engineering .
32 operating inefficiencies .
advances for purchases amounting to 100 per cent had been granted surpassing the circular provisions in the procurement of goods and services to ensure obtaining goods and services quickly and efficiently .
instances of nonsupply of goods for the advances granted in the year 2011 even by september 2013 were observed .
actions had not been taken for the recovery of such money while advances had been further granted to those suppliers .
33 transactions of contentious nature .
34 deficiencies in contract administration .
the following observations are made .
a the following items installed in the building no 3 of the building of the faculty of medicine had been rusted before the expiry of one year since the use of the building .
ii sanitary equipment 04 .
b even though the handrail of the stairway and the exterior security fences of the above building had been constructed with iron and painted with galvanizing  those had rusted by the time of inspection .
4 systems and controls .
deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of the audit were brought to the notice of the vicechancellor of the university from time to time .
special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control .
a accounting .
b budgetary control .
c advances control .
d assets control .
e construction control .
the department of hindu religious and cultural affairs was established on 1st of january 1986  to preserve  promote and propagate  hindu religion and hindu culture of sri lanka .
at present  this department functions under the ministry of resettlement  reconstruction and hindu religious affairs .
i take this opportunity to add a few words to the performance report and annual accounts for 2014 of the department of hindu religious and cultural affairs .
i am proud to state that we were able to achieve the significant role expected from our department according to the government policies during 2014 in an efficient and productive manner .
the efficiency of performance of the department has been increased due to the hard work and dedication of all the staff members including newly recruited development officers .
i hereby wish to express my deepest gratitude and sincere thanks to all hon ministers  hon members of parliament  hon members of provincial council  and all government intuitions and other stakeholders including hindu religious monks  priests  scholars  institutions  temple trustees and aranery schools for extending their fullest support and cooperation to the activities of our department .
in fact i am well fortunate to receive the fullest cooperation from the secretary and the staff of the ministry of buddhasasana and religious affairs in our efforts to perform the responsibilities of the department of hindu religious and cultural affairs very successfully .
hence i wish to extend my thankfulness to the secretary and all staff members of the ministry of buddhasasana and religious affairs for their great support .
i  whilst appreciating the services of all management staff and members of the staff of our department who had extended their cooperation for providing admirable contribution for our efforts to achieve the targets in 2014  no doubt they deserve my gratitude .
director .
department of hindu religious and cultural affairs .
introduction .
the department of hindu religious and cultural affairs was established on 1st of january 1986 to preserve  promote and propagate hindu religion and hindu culture .
vision .
preservation  promotion and propagation of hindu religion and culture .
mission .
preservation  promotion and propagation of hindu religion  hindu religious education  hindu culture and arts and renovation of hindu temples .
objectives .
promoting hindu religious education to practice moral characters and religious values among hindu youths .
preserving hindu religious practices for sustaining and developing hindu religion and culture .
promoting research on hindu religion and culture .
sensitizing the public about the noble character of hindu culture and magnificence of hindu art and architecture .
key functions .
rehabilitation of hindu temples .
providing training for hindu priest .
observing guru poojas of hindu saints  conducting hindu lectures and preserving the traditions by conducting hindu festivals .
promoting hindu religious education and encouraging to preserve moral values in aranery schools .
compilation of hindu encyclopedia .
administration of hindu research library .
conducting research on hindu religion and tami culture .
preserving hindu religious tamil culture .
administration of hindu pilgrim’s rest house in kataragama .
administration of hindu culture centre  batticaloa .
administration of anaipanthi gurukula building  jaffna .
administration of navalar mani mandapam  jaffna .
preserving hindu culture and arts .
implementation of provisions of the hindu cultural fund act .
programmes and performance report .
from 01012014 to 31122014 .
introduction .
the following projects are being implemented by the department of hindu religious and cultural affairs in keeping line with the government policy towards the creation of a virtuous society .
programmes .
development of hindu aranery schools .
promotion of hindu religious activities .
research on hindu religion and culture .
promotion of hindu culture and arts .
development of hindu temples and organizations .
the following projects were implemented by the department up to 31st december 2014 .
development of hindu aranery schools .
the hindu aranery schools are functioning with the objectives of to impress the values of moral character and making them to have faith in the almighty  prayers and worshipping at temples and preaching them hinduism .
several projects have been designed to develop the aranery schools and implemented by the department .
the main activities are conducting seminars for teachers  supplying books to the aranery schools  supplying uniform materials to the students  and providing financial assistance to fulfill the basic requirement of furniture to the aranery schools .
seminars and workshops for aranery school teachers .
the seminars and workshops are being conducted in the districts to regularize the teaching method of aranery school teachers  explain the concept of the syllabus and conduct practicals for the students .
up to 31st december 2014 in the department .
no of registered aranery schools	 1 887 .
no of aranery school students  285 067 .
no of aranery school teachers 9 407 .
07 dharmachariyar residential seminars have been conducted .
colombo .
gampaha .
galle .
kegalle .
matale .
kaluthara .
puttalam .
kurunagala .
kandy .
ratnapura .
nuwara eliya .
matara .
badulla .
batticaloa .
trincomalee .
ampara .
polonnaruwa .
jaffna .
kilinochchi .
mullaitivu .
mannar .
vaviniya .
707 hindu dharnachariyars have been benefitted .
03 seminars on residential teaching method have been conducted for aranery teachers .
trincomalee .
batticaloa .
ampara .
polonnaruwa .
jaffana .
682 hindu aranery teachers have been benefitted .
13 seminars for final exam for aranery teachers have been conducted .
kaluthara .
ratnapura .
badulla .
colombo .
gampaha .
kilinochchi .
mullaitivu .
galle .
mannar .
batticaloa .
puttalam .
ampara .
jaffna .
kandy .
1196 hindu aranery teachers participated and benefitted .
dharmasariyar residential seminar  colombo .
dharmasariyar residential seminar  batticaloa .
general knowledge competitive examination for aranery school students .
certificates and cash are awarded for the students who got the highest marks in national level and district level .
a general knowledge competitive examination was conducted on 28th june 2014 in 160 exam centers island wide for the students of aranery school and around 69 783 students sat for this examination .
prize giving ceremony for the students who passed the examination was held on 18th october 2014 at new kathiresan hall  bambalapity .
special magazine on hindu religious general knowledge examination prize giving has also been published .
1000 students of aranery schools  their parents and the teachers of aranery schools participated for in this ceremony .
allowance for aranery school teachers for library books .
3250 teachers from 773 aranery schools in 22 districts namely jaffna  batticaloa  kandy  nuwara eliya  kilinochchi  mullaitivu  ampara  kegalle  matale  badulla  puttalam  trincomalee  ratnapura  kaluthara  polonnaruwa  colombo  kurunagala  galle  matara  gampaha  mannar and vavuniya have been paid the allowance this year .
purchasing of musical instrument .
81 suruthy boxes and 80 thalams were purchased this year .
these were provided to 79 aranery schools in districts jaffna  batticaloa  nuwara eliya  kilinochchi  ratnapura  kaluthara and galle .
purchasing of uniform materials for aranery school students .
uniform materials are provided to aranery school students annually with free of charge by this department .
accordingly  65 050 meters uniform materials have been purchased in 3 stages and provided to 22  857 aranery school students including 10 968 male students and 11  889 female students of 13 districts of kandy  matale  nuwara eliya  batticaloa  kaluthara  jaffna  mannar  kilinochchi  mullaitivu badulla  colombo  galle and ratnapura .
pannisai classes .
pannisai classes are conducted at district level every year to encourage the talent of aranrery school students in pannasai .
437 pannisai classes have been conducted in kaluthara  jaffna  batticaloa and badulla districts .
seminars on pannisai was conducted at bulathsinhala on 20122014 for aranery school students of kaluthara district .
for aranery school students of badulla and batticaloa districts seminars on pannisai was conducted at lunugala on 20122014 .
provision for capital for the development of aranery schools .
in this basis  the fund was provided to 67 aranery schools of 18 districts of kandy  kegalle  colombo  ratnapura  kilinochchi  batticaloa  trincomalee  jaffna  vavuniya  puttalam  kaluthara  mullaitivu  badulla  nuwara eliya  matale  kurunagala  galle and polonnaruwa .
seminar on pannisai  kaluthara .
the following hindu religious books were purchased for the reference purpose of aranery school students .
spiritual leadership training for hindu youths .
the spiritual leadership training and capacity building programme which improve the spiritual and capacity building of youth are conducted every year .
it has been conducted on 19th and 20th of april in badulla for the hindu aranery schools youth in badulla and nuwara eliya districts  5th and 6th of september in kilinochchi hindu college for aranery schools youths in kilinochchi  october at mankulam sivasatkunanathar achrama for aranery schools youth in mullaitivu  vavuniya and mannar and 22nd and 23rd december in ramakrishna mission hall  colombo for aranery schools youths in kegalle .
527 hindu youths participated and benefitted .
financial assistance for aranery school building under “deyata kirula” programme .
promotion of hindu religion .
department arranges and sponsors to conduct festivals in several districts in order to promote hindu religious activities and festivals .
lecture series on hindu religion .
hindu religious lectures have been conducted in temples and hindu religious institutions by the religious scholars .
121 religious lectures have been conducted up to now in 14 districts namely jaffna  puttalam  batticaloa  ratnapura  matala  kandy  ampara  badulla  colombo  nuwara eliya  mullaitivu  kilinochchi  kaluthara and galle .
over 7500 public benefitted .
guru poojas .
special programmes are conducted in temples to celebrate guru pooja days of hindu saints .
guru poojas for 90 hindu saints have been conducted in 16 districts namely jaffna  galle  ratnapura  colombo  badulla  nuwara eliya  mullaitivu  kandy  trincomalee  mannar  ampara  batticaloa  matale  gampaha  puttalam and polonnaruwa .
over 7200 hindu people got benefits .
hindu religious festival .
thaippongal – stamp release .
thaippongal special stamp was released with the sponsorship of postal department by honorable prime minister on 20140114 at dhurkka mani mandapam  jaffna .
thaippongal festival .
thaippongal celebration was arranged by the department and celebrated in jaffna navalar manimandapam  vavuniya  kilinochchi  kaluthara  colombo  nuwara eliya  puttalam  trincomalee and batticaloa districts on 20140114 .
maha sivarathri pooja .
special pooja and spiritual cultural programmes were conducted with the assistance of the department on 20th march at sivan temple  ratnapura in order to celebrate maha sivarathri fasting .
deputy minister of budhasasana and religious affairs  members of parliament from ratnapura district  district secretary director from department and several guests participated in this occasion .
further to this  special pooja and cultural programmes were conducted in the temples in galle  mullaitivu  jaffna  puttalam  badulla  trincomalee  batticaloa  kilinochchi and polonnaruwa districts with the assistance of the department .
sivarathri festival conducted at sivan temple  ratnapura .
navarathri function .
50 navarathri poojas were conducted at district level from 24th sep to 03rd october in 19 districts namely jaffna  batticaloa  kandy  nuwara eliya  kilinochchi  mullaitivu  ampara  matale  badulla  puttalam  trincomalee  matara  ratnapura  kaluthara  polonnaruwa  colombo  galle  gampaha  and vavuniya .
sivarathri was also celebrated in the parliament on 25092014 with the presence of members of parliament  secretaries to the ministries  directors of the departments and other officers .
cultural programmes were also conducted by the school students from jaffna and mullaitivu districts .
“punya grama” programme .
in order to gather vulnerable people and teach them about hindu moral characters  this progrmme was arranged in selected vulnerable areas .
from 09 districts namely jaffna  kilinochchi  batticaloa  galle  badulla  vavuniya and ratnapura 14 programmes were conducted .
over 2050 public and school students participated and got benefits .
classes conducted in nallur navalar manimandapam .
to improve the physical  mental  religious and cultural interest of aranery school students  174 yoga classes  64 miruthanka classes  75 violin classes  102 pannisai classes and 03 hindu saints guru poojas and thiruvasaka festival were conducted at nallur navalar manimandapam which is administrated by the department .
54 yoga classes  430 dance classes and navarathri pooja have been conducted to improve the physical  mental  religious and cultural interest of aranery school students of navatkuda hindu cultural centre in batticaloa which is administrated by the department .
deyata kirula – exhibition .
with the concept of crown to nation  an exhibition was taken place from 21st january to 2nd february 2014 in vayamba university  kurunagala .
all ministries and departments of sri lanka participated and arranged exhibition stalls .
action plan  information related to programmes and photographs were exhibited in the exhibition stall allocated for the department of hindu religious and cultural affairs and the books published by the department  exhibits which reveals hindu tradition were also exhibited .
other festivals .
special poojas were taken place at sri kathirvelautha temple in kegalle in order to celebrate 66th independence day of sri lanka .
sabragamuwa provincial council members  kegalle district secretary  additional secretary of this ministry  director and officers of this department and public participated at the event .
further  tamil literature and cultural festival was also conducted in polonnaruwa and badulla districts and over 365 public participated and benefitted .
language ability for hindu priest and aranery school teachers .
training classes to improve language ability of hindu priest and aranery school teachers were started in august 2014 in batticaloa and jaffna districts .
24 sinhala classes  24 english classes in jaffna district and 41 sinhala classes  24 english classes in batticaloa district have been conducted .
independence day special pooja  kegalle .
“iniya vasamtham” hindu buddhist integrated programme from ministry allocation .
department of buddha religious affairs joined with department of hindu religious and cultural affairs is conducting hindu buddhist integrated programme with the guidance of the ministry of buddhasasana and religious affairs .
this programme was organized to make unity and understanding between hindu and buddhists .
students  teachers  parents and priests of both hindu and buddhist get together in a place and exchange their opinions which lead to know about the arts  culture and traditions of each community .
08 programmes were conducted this year .
conducted at kallady hindu culture centre  batticaloa from 03052014 to 04052014 .
conducted at welikanda  alsepura  maithirugama sri sutharshnarama vihara  polonnaruwa from 31052014 to 01062014 .
conducted at kopay christian college  jaffna from 20062014 to 22062014 .
conducted at mahawa  ehala sri sutharnaramavihara  puttalam from 26072014 to 27072014 .
conducted at bhothikshinarama vihara  vavuniya from 23082014 to 24082014 .
conducted at thirukketheeswaram  mannar from 13092014 to 14092014 .
conducted at mahadeva achchirama  kilinochchi from 04102014 to 05102014 .
conducted at kokkeralla uthurupavva vihara  kurunagala from 08112014 to 9112014 .
for the program in batticaloa .
siththi vinayakar aranery school .
sri veeraiyadi aranery school .
sivasakthi aranery school .
sri nagalinga vairavar aranery school .
sri muthumaariyamman aranery school .
vivekanada aranery school .
bharathiyar aranery school .
for the programmes in jaffna .
sri pararaja pillaiyar aranery school .
sivagami aranery school .
sri selvakkathirgama mrugan aranery school .
nellandaiyamman aranery school .
sivaththamil aranery school .
sivan aranery school .
sri muthumariyamman aranery school .
poompuhar siththivinayakar aranery school .
sri murugan aranery school .
siththi vinayakar aranery school in mannar .
for programmes in kilinochchi .
sittoondi vinayakar aranery school .
arulmigu kandasamy aranery school .
swamy vivekanadar aranery school and .
sri naagapoosaniyamman aranery school were participated .
iniya vasamtham programme  batticaloa .
research on hindu religious culture .
hindu religious research conference .
department arranges research related to hindu religion annually with this year research on the heading of “thiruvathavurarum saivaththirunerium” was conducted from last 18th july to 20th july at saraswathy mandapam  bamblapitiya .
two items were taken place as research session and stage programmes .
45 essays were submitted as research essays in 15 sessions of these 3 days .
in the second day evening programme the prime minister of government of republic socialist of sri lanka and also secretary to the ministry of buddhasasana and religious affairs participated as the chief guest and released research book and cassette .
in these 3 days event  every day 200 public including university students  school students and interested public on hindu religion participated and benefitted .
release of cassette consisting essays submitted in the research seminar  suvioner 12th compilation of hindu encylopedia and thiruvasaka songs .
the book “moovar thamilum saivanerium” which was submitted in the previous year research seminar  12th compilation of hindu encyclopedia and thiruvasaka songs cassette were released .
750 copies of the book “moovar thamilum saivanerium” consisting 40 research essays in 644 pages were printed and published .
during the first day of this event  “thiruvathavurarum saivanerium”  1000 published copies of this souvenir was printed and distributed to the participants with free of charge .
this book contains 10 essays in 182 pages .
publication of new year panchangam  gopuram  panpadu information books .
3000 copies of each1st and 2nd edition of “ gopuram” which consists of information about the department have been published and distributed and 1000 copies of each 1st and 2nd edition of “panpadu” which is department research book have also been printed and distributed .
12 000 copies of “hindu pnachangam” were published and provided to people  temples and hindu organizations .
4000 copies of pillaiyaar kathai was published and distributed .
15 kinds of books were distributed to 150 schools and public libraries in all islands in order to celebrate the month of reading .
sanskrit language classes .
3 months sanskrit classes started in jaffna and colombo .
28 classes with 25 students in colombo and 29 classes with 12 students in jaffna have been conducted .
certificates awarding ceremony was conducted under the chairmanship of mrsshanthi navukarasan  director of the department on 21062014 at gurukulam  jaffna and on 20062014 at conference hall of the department  colombo .
saiva siththantha classes .
department arranged and conducted saiva siththantha classes for the people who are interested in it .
it was conducted on 04th and 05th of april 2014 at vivekananda college  orr’s hill  trincomalee .
as per the request of school teachers  and students  the classes were conducted for the students who learn hindu religion and hinduism .
over 350 teachers and students participated and benefitted .
research meetings and discussions .
08 discissions were conducted by the advisory committee relating 12th compilation of hindu encyclopedia and printing of rare books .
seminar on sculpture and architecture .
residential seminar on sculpture and architecture were conducted in 3 stages 1st and 2nd of july in vavuniya 03rd and 04th of july in kilinochchiand 06th and 07th of july in mullaitivu .
250 public in vavuniya  175 public in kilinochchi and 175 public in mullaitivu including al students and teachers participated in these seminars .
seminars to government school teachers who teach hindu religion .
80 government school teachers who are engaged in teaching hindu religion benefitted by the seminar conducted from 15092014 to 17092014 in ratnapura  galle  kegalle  matara  colombo and kaluthara districts .
manual for famous temples and guideline books for hindu temples .
it has been decided to publish a manual consisting historical specialities of famous hindu temples in sri lanka for the benefits of local and foreign devotees .
the temples in jaffna  mullaitivu  batticaloa  ampara  trincomalee and further 76 temples have been selected and started to write essays until now .
further  photographs of 10 famous temples in jaffna have also been taken .
dictionary for tamil words used in eelam .
this program is implemented to prepare a dictionary gathering tamil words used by sri lankan tamils .
on this basis  1300 words have been arranged in electronic version and provided for the 1st printing .
promotion of hindutamil arts  culture .
purchasing of books from sri lankan writers .
1825 books have been purchased from 70 writers and being distributed for encouraging tamil writers in sri lanka .
promotion of falk arts .
under the project to promote tamil arts  seminar on falk tamil arts was conducted on 10th  11th and 12th october at navatkuda hindu culture hall  batticaloa .
around 150 artists from jaffna  batticaloa  ampara and up country participated .
“kalabhushana” award .
the great award kalabhushana viruthu is awarded by the department every year to the artists who have rendered yeoman service to the arts and culture .
this year  100 eligible tamil artists were selected to receive this award by the evaluation committee which was appointed by the department .
456 artists consists of 278 sinhala artists  100 tamil artists and 78 muslim artists were awarded in this ceremony which was held on 14th december 2014 at bandaranayake memorial international conference hall .
nearly 1000 interested public participated .
development of hindu temples and institutions .
financial assistance to the temples under capital expenditure .
rehabilitation of hindu temples north east .
cheques valued rupees one lakh for each temple were provided to 363 hindu temples through divisional secretaries for the rehabilitation in northern and eastern provinces .
district .
noof temples .
jaffna .
batticaloa .
ampara .
trincomalee .
vaviniya .
mannar .
total .
sri paththira kaali amman temple  thannamunai  batticaloa .
sri buvaneswary ampal temple  thellipalai .
sriman naarayanan temple  ampara .
siththi vinayakar temple  poonagary .
rehabilitation of hindu temples and institutions .
district .
noof temples .
badulla .
colombo .
galle .
kaluthara .
kandy .
kurunagala .
matale .
matara .
nuwara eliya .
ratnapura .
total .
under the deyata kirula programme .
kurunagala .
puttalam .
total .
sri kathirvelautha swamy temple  rokkanthanai estate  hali ela .
sri katpakappillaiyar temple  thelpethatha  badulla .
sri subramaniya swamy temple  rewon shoot division pallakedduwa  badulla .
financial assistance for the rehabilitation of temples in order to deyata kirula exhibition .
financial assistance was provided through district secretaries for the rehabilitation of 30 temples in puttalam  kegalle districts for deyata kirula exhibition and expenditure was made for 28 temples .
district .
noof temples .
kegalle .
puttalam .
total .
financial assistance for the rehabilitation of temples under “vadakkin vasantham” .
100 temples received cheques valued 2 lakh per each through divisional secretaries for the rehabilitation of hindu temples under the vadakkin vasantham programme .
district .
noof temples .
kilinochchi .
mullaitivu .
mannar .
jaffna .
vaviniya .
total .
chithrameny vairavar temple  jaffna .
selvavinayakar temple  olumadu  mankulam .
dhurkka parameswary najinai naagammal temple  thirumurikandy .
sri saptha kanny temple  vadduvagal  mullaitivu .
promotion of infrastructure for hindu temples .
79 hindu temples have been received financial assistance by cheques through divisional secretaries .
district .
noof temples .
kilinochchi .
puttalam .
ampara .
batticaloa .
jaffna .
mannar .
trincomalee .
vavuniya .
moneragala .
polonnaruwa .
kanda .
ratnapura .
colombo .
total .
holy well of sri maanikka pillaiyar temple  kiran  batticaloa .
water tank of sri muthumaariyamman temple  parappukadanthan  mannar .
water tank of eelam kasi shesthiram  kilinochchi .
financial assistance for hindu temples under recurrent expenditure .
financial assistance provided to 13 hindu temples under the occasion of providing funds for “kumbabisekam .
district .
noof temples .
jaffna .
badulla .
nuwara eliya .
puttalam .
kegalle .
mullaitivu .
mannar .
kandy .
ratnapura .
ampara .
colombo .
total .
sri muthumariyamman temple kumbhabisheka festival  poondulooya .
thimilai kannaki amman temple kumbhabisheka festival  chillaw .
financial assistance for homes for children and elders .
to encourage the organizations which maintain the homes for children and elders  financial assistance is granted annually  following districts were provided financial assistance this year .
anpu children home  muththaiyankaddu .
bharathy children home  mullaitivu .
financial assistance to hindu organizations .
under the programme of providing financial assistance for the rehabilitation of hindu religious organizations  fund was granted for the repairs of bahavan sri sthya saibava building and pilgrimage from ampara to kathiragama .
publication and distribution of nandhi flag .
nandhi flag is printed and issued to hindu temples and other religious organizations by this department annually .
the published and distributed nandhi flag details are as follows .
details of nanthi flags .
noof total flags .
noof published flags .
noof distributed flags .
large flags .
small flags .
tasseled flags .
small flags .
triangle shape .
hanging flags .
consists two nanthies .
total .
guideline book for administration of hindu temples .
department published a guideline book consists of common appointment files in 2014 to administrate the hindu temples considering its good and bad conditions of the administration .
department expects to follow the regulations perfectly as administration of the hindu temples will be regularized in a limit and to achieve the purpose of appointing temple administrative board .
department of hindu religious and cultural affairs .
division wise financial progress 2014 .
development of hindu aranery schools .
promotion of hindu religion .
research on hindu religion .
promotion of hindu tamil art and culture .
development of hindu temples and organizations .
total .
registered temples  hindu religious organizations and hindu aranery schools in the department .
up to 2014 december 31 .
district .
noof temples and organizations .
noof schools .
temples .
organization .
schools .
teachers .
students .
designation .
present cadre .
vacant .
director .
deputy director .
accountant .
assistant director .
assistant director .
administrative officer .
librarian .
research officer .
development assistant .
development officer .
cultural officer .
public management assistant .
manager for hindu pilgrimage guest house .
assistant manager for hindu pilgrimage guest house .
driver .
hindu cultural assistant .
data entry operator .
cultural sevakka .
office assistant .
security officer .
security .
maintenance officer .
contract basis .
hindu cultural fund .
performance report for the year 2014 .
introduction .
fund for hindu tradition was established in 1985 by the 31st act to perform hindu religious  cultural activities independently .
03 official members and 05 members appointed by hon minister will be appointmented as members for this fund .
the following members are the members for 2014 .
president .
secretary ministry of buddhasasana and religious affairs .
chief administrative officer .
director department of hindu religious and cultural affairs .
accountant .
accountant  department of hindu religious and cultural affairs .
members .
assistant director  department of hindu religious and cultural affairs .
financial status .
progress  from 20140101 to 20141231 .
financial progress .
physical progress .
financial assistance for aranery school polonnaruwa and building for oottady pilliyar .
financial assistance to the bull in naguleswaram temple .
purchased 1129 uniform materials .
this book contains research article related to hindu religion  history of hindu religion  philosophy  traditions  and hindu religious leaders  books  temples and fastings .
it was started in 1989 and completed in 2014 .
the details are as follows .
sector of hindu encyclopedia .
year of published .
number of essays .
letters .
it is the first encyclopedia in the world published by the department of hindu religious and cultural affairs consisting of information about hindu religion .
since this encyclopedia is an useful document to all tamil speaking hindu people in the world  president of malaysian thiruvakku thirupeedam came forward to republish this encyclopedia .
action has been taken to reprint in 2015 .
reformation of textbooks of hindu aranery school students .
according to the policy planning of the government  aranery schools were started in 1989 .
along with the statement “aranery schools in every temples”  aranery schools were started in temples and registered in the department .
syllabuses and books were printed for this .
at the end of 2014  syllabus and books were reformed to include new views .
for providing importance to discipline  moral values and dhamma  reforming activity is being done from grade 1 to grade 5 .
consultancy committee has been appointed by the department .
action has been taken to revise the syllabuses .
in the first stage  textbooks for first 5 grades have been reformed and ready to print .
these books will be published in june 2015 .
performance report  2014 .
department of national budget .
ministry of finance  planning .
vision .
socioeconomic development through an efficient management of public resources .
mission .
facilitation of the performance of the responsibility conferred on the legislature for the management of public finance  by provision and distribution of resources for efficient delivery of public services and for the achievement of the development objectives of the government .
functions  responsibilities .
formulation of the national budget .
preparation of medium term expenditure framework mtef over a period of 03 years .
formulation of annual budget estimates for ministries  departments and statutory agencies of the government in consultation with the spending agencies and the relevant treasury departments to achieve the fiscal targets stipulated in the fiscal management responsibility act .
public expenditure management .
issuance of budget circulars .
enforcement of appropriate budgetary management measures to ensure that funds are used exclusively for the declared purposes within the approved limits .
interacting with the spending agencies to ensure the effectiveness of spending .
analysis of expenditure for monitoring of financial as well as physical progress .
representing the committee on accounting of the parliament .
preparation of observations on cabinet memoranda .
granting approval for vehicle procurements  not included in the leasing method .
procurement of vehicles for all government agencies under the financial leasing method .
participation of staff of director boards and committees representing treasury department of national budget .
financial administration of the department .
activities related to statutory agencies non – commercial public institutions .
preparation of cost estimates of noncommercial statutory boards funded by the consolidated fund .
reperesenting the committee on on public enterprises cope .
advance accounts activities .
determination of limits for the commercial  stores and public officer’s advance accounts in consultation with the spending agencies and consideration of the requests for revision of limits .
representing the treasury at the committee on public accounts copa meetings on matters related to advance accounts .
contents .
chapter .
subject .
page .
overview 01 .
review  implementation of budget 2014 .
appropriation bill for 2014 .
performance 2014 .
sectoral perspectives in 2014 budget in the medium term expenditure framework of 20142016 .
management of budget 2014 .
budget expenditure as per government accounts .
public expenditure management .
supplementary estimate .
urgent requirements expenditure in 2014 .
financial obligation management .
issuance of budget circulars .
monitoring of advance accounts .
formulation of budget estimates for 2015 .
budget formulation guidelines .
special activities .
budgetary management of non commercial public enterprises .
observations on cabinet memoranda .
coordinating “deyata kirula” development programme2014 .
approval for the purchase of vehicles .
national budget approval for vehicle procurements .
procurement of vehicles to the public sector .
participation of staff on boards and committees .
the organizational structure and role of the department of national budget .
the staff .
human resource development .
foreign trainingseminarsmeetings .
local training .
financial administration of the department of national budget .
advance account of public officers .
auditor general’s queries for 2014 .
summary .
the department of national budget operates under the guidance of the ministry of finance and planning .
the department functions as the focal point for the formulation of budget estimates based on a sector wise medium term expenditure framework mtef in consistence with the overall medium term macroeconomic framework .
the mtef presents its financial plans towards specific targets within the context of sectorial policy strategies while paying particular attention to the management of public expenditure .
this process involves a continuous consultation with the line ministries  departments  statutory agencies of the government and the relevant treasury departments .
performance of the operational activities of this department is based on the broader scope of public finance management and planning of the ministry of finance and planning and overall mandate of the department of national budget .
in the year 2014  the department carried out a wide range of activities in relation to the implementation of budget 2014 as well as preparation of annual budget of 2015 within the medium term expenditure framework  2015–2017  as given in table 11 .
table 11 .
summary of performance – year 2014 .
function .
activity .
overall target .
achievements .
implementation of budget 2014 and expenditure management .
issuance of budget circulars giving instructions on expenditure management .
manage public expenditure efficiently .
issuance of national budget circular nos 157  157i in this regard .
provision of additional funds for unforeseen expenditure and submission of supplementary estimates to parliament .
provide funds and reduce unforeseen expenditure .
the additional fund requirements  especially for accommodating unforeseen incidents such as floods  draughts etc were addressed  managing the reallocation of funds within the approved expenditure ceiling  without submitting a supplementary estimate to parliament .
authorization of transfer of funds under fr 66 and 69 .
maintain the expenditure within the approved estimates .
as per the financial regulations  1589 applications were authorized .
out of that  242 applications were programme transfers and 1 347were project transfers .
preparation of national budget estimate for 2015 .
issuance of budget guidelines on the preparation of the budget estimates .
issuance of letters to the ministries  with the relevant guidelines on preparation of budget estimate .
formulated the budget for 2015 in line with the government development policy framework within mtef 20152017 .
preparation of draft annual budget estimates in consultation with spending agencies and relevant departments of the treasury .
ensure meeting the goals set out in the vision for the future development policy framework of the government .
conducted prebudget meetings for selected ministries and other stakeholders with the chairmanship of he the president .
function .
activity .
overall target .
achievement .
conduct budget discussions with relevant ministries .
identify the actual requirements and prepare a realistic budget .
conducted meetings under the chairmanship of the hon minister of the relevant ministry .
conducted review meetings with the secretary to the treasury and the deputy secretaries along with relevant departments agencies .
making necessary arrangements to present the appropriation bill for 2015 to parliament  on time .
making necessary arrangements to present the appropriation bill to parliament in first week of oct  2014 .
gazetted the appropriation bill for 2015 in the gazette  dated 19 09 2014 .
preparation of detailed printed estimates .
preparation of detailed printed estimates with relevant to all the expenditure heads with analytical data .
pass the appropriation bill by parliament .
submitted the appropriation bill to parliament on 26092014 .
presented the budget to the parliament second reading on 24102014 .
parliament passed the appropriation bill on 24 11 2014 .
appropriation act no 41 of 2014 was certified by the hon speaker on 24 11 2014 .
warrants were issued by he the president as the minister of finance on 04 12 2014 .
function .
activity .
overall target .
achievement .
submission of observations on cabinet memoranda .
submission of observations and comments on cabinet memoranda in line with relevant analysis of government expenditure .
submitted 399 observations on cabinet memoranda .
timely submission of observations on cabinet memoranda .
internal management of the department of national budget .
general administration .
financial leasing management .
ensure efficient utilization of human resources and budgetary provisions allocated to the department .
capacity building .
develop human resources through local and foreign training .
three officers were trained overseas while four officers were trained locally on programmes related to activities of the nbd .
submission of reports .
submit reports before the deadlines .
performance report .
appropriation account .
reconciliation of public officers advance account .
submitted the following reports on time .
performance report 2013 .
appropriation account 2014 .
reconciliation of public officers advance account 2014 .
replying to the audit queries .
minimize audit queries .
attend to copa .
replied to the all audit queries 07 forwarded by the department of auditor general .
review and implementation of budget 2014 .
appropriation act for 2014 .
accordingly  the appropriation act amendment no 47 of 2014 which includes the above changes was approved by parliament .
performance of budget  2014 .
headwise expenditures which were disaggregated in terms of projects and by object codes with sources of financing presented to parliament in the printed estimates along with the budget speech .
once the appropriation bill became an act and the minister of finance issued warrants authorizing to incur expenditure as indicated in printed estimates .
as per the budget estimates approved by parliament for year 2014  provisions were allocated among 208 expenditure headsspending units .
this included both capital and recurrent expenditure namely  salaries and wages  welfare  operational expenses such as electricity  water  stationery fuel  diet  uniforms and the expenditure related to development programmes .
accordingly  the advance account activities of the year 2014 have been carried out within the approved limits .
table 21 utilization of provisions  2014 .
name of the ministryspecial spending units .
estimated provisions .
additional allocation .
total expenditure .
actual expenditure .
unutilized provisions .
special spending units .
buddha sasana and religious affairs .
finance and planning .
defense and urban development .
economic development .
disaster management .
postal services .
court .
health .
foreign affairs .
transport .
petroleum industries .
cooperatives and internal trade .
highways  ports and shipping .
agriculture .
power and energy .
child development and women s affairs .
public administration and home affairs .
mass media and information .
construction  engineering services  housing and common amenities .
social services .
education .
labour and labour relations .
traditional industries and small enterprise development .
local government and provincial councils .
technology and research .
national languages and social integration .
plantation industries .
sports .
indigenous medicine .
fisheries and aquatic resources development .
livestock and rural community development .
national heritage .
parliamentary affairs .
resettlement .
industrial and commerce	affairs .
irrigation and water resources management .
land and land development .
youth affairs and skills development .
environment  renewable energy .
water supply and drainage .
higher education .
public management reforms .
rehabilitation and prison reforms .
state resources and enterprise development .
civil aviation .
culture and the arts .
coconut development and people s estate development .
wildlife resources conservation .
minor export crop promotion .
productivity promotion .
foreign employment promotion and welfare .
public relations and public affairs .
private transport services .
telecommunication and information technology .
sugar industry development .
investment promotion .
botanical gardens and public recreation .
education services .
law and order .
debt service payment .
treasury miscellaneous vote tmv .
grand total .
provisions were provided from supplementary allocation .
source department of national budget department of state accounts .
sectoral perspectives in 2014 budget in the medium term expenditure framework of 20142016 .
the budget 2014 was mainly based on the development policy framework of the government and on the strategies identified therein .
the following operational scenarios were also applied in the formulation and implementation of 2014 budget .
sectoral basis – the budgetary allocations for 2014 were made in accordance with the sectoral policy framework developed by relevant stakeholders for the development of respective sectors during the medium term of 3 years .
realistic assessment – the budget 2014 was based on an assessment of actual expenditure incurred under the limits provided in terms of article 150 2 and article 150 3 of the constitution .
slowmoving projects – reformulation or phasing out of all such projects that have been carried in estimates for several years .
prevent duplication and incompatibility  proper recognition was given to identify duplicated and incompatible activities under each of the ministries .
also  instructions were given to distribute the allocations in all the spending agencies and the provincial councils in a manner that would manage the sectoral allocation .
in order to facilitate this sectoral process  all ministries  departments  and other spending agencies were classified under sectors in the budget formulation  namely social security  human resource development  infrastructure development  real economy  environment  research and technology  public service delivery  defense and law enforcement .
accordingly  each spending agency was categorized into said sectors  depending on the activity undertaken .
management of 2014 budget .
total government expenditure .
however  the government was able to limit the actual expenditure to 1370 billion  slightly lower than the original estimated 14708 billion .
public expenditure management .
the budgetary operations 2014 were managed within the expenditure ceilings approved by parliament while ensuring achieving the targets of the medium term expenditure framework 20142016 .
among the tools that have been employed for prudent public expenditure management by the treasury  the supplementary support services and contingent liabilities treasury miscellaneous vote tmv was one of the main instruments to prevent supplementary budget to manage various unforeseen urgent requirements during the year .
supplementary estimates .
the supplementary support services and contingent liabilities project treasury miscellaneous vote tmv continued to be implemented by the treasury as a tool for the prudent management of public expenditure in 2014 in order to provide funds for unforeseen urgent requirements while preventing ad hoc supplementary budget estimates .
the treasury recognized an aggregate sum for this instrument during the budget formulation process considering the historical trends in public expenditure and budget deficits and other fiscal targets such as advance provisions to enable to improve favorable fiscal environment in the country .
the provisions for supplimentary support were utilized as follows .
table 22 supplementary provisions for capital expenditure .
major areas .
obligation management .
the treasury issued guidelines to manage financial obligations which are being entered into by various spending agencies without having adequate provisions and thereby creating liabilities on the government and to ensure such obligations are included well within the budgetary provisions .
also  they were directed to spend within the medium term budgetary framework that had already been approved by parliament .
the management of obligations  and recurrent and capital expenditure  was further strengthened by issuing the national budget circular no 12014 dated 01012014 requesting all spending agencies to adhere to the annual provision limits in 2014 budget estimate .
further  guidelines on obligation management has issued by the treasury through the budget circular no 032014 on 18082014 on guidelines on preparation of budget estimates for 2015 .
accordingly  all accounting officers were advised to establish proper systems to ensure commitments are made only within the approved annual budget .
issuance of budget circulars .
the department has issued following circulars during the year 2014  providing guidelines required for expenditure management of the spending agencies .
table 23 issuance of budget circulars .
date .
circular no .
title .
01012014 12014 	authorization for incurring expenditure for 2014 and public expenditure management .
23072014 22014	implementation of budget proposals 2014 providing motorcycles field officers in public sector .
18082014 32014	guidelines for preparation of budget estimates for 2015 .
04122014 42014	incur expenditure within the revised budget estimates for 2014 .
26122014 152 ii	guidelines for provisions of relief to the public in an emergency disaster situation and restoration of damaged areas .
29122014 152 iii special circular for provision of relief to victims of prevailing disaster situations .
30122014 52014	authorization for incurring expenditure for 2015 and public expenditure management .
source department of national budget .
monitoring of advance accounts .
monitoring of advance accounts operations continued under the purview of the department during the year 2014 .
out of total 207 advance accounts 196 public officers’ advance accounts  4 commercial advance accounts  3 stores advance accounts and 4 special advance accounts were operated .
according the provisions of appropriation act  limit revisions of 31 public officers’ advance accounts and 05 other advance accounts were submitted for parliamentary approval .
officers of this department attended meetings of the committee on public accounts copa held to examine the auditor general’s reports on advance accounts in 2014  in parliament .
preparation of budget estimates for 2015 .
budget estimates for 2015 were formulated within the tenyear development framework 20062016 .
accordingly  the budget 2015 targeted the strategies to raise per capita income and transforming sri lanka to poverty free country by 2016 .
budget formulation guidelines .
a standard budget circular was not issued for the preparation of budget estimates for the year 2015 .
all the secretaries of ministries were addressed personally giving guidelines to prepare their estimates for 2015 by way of a personalized letter issued by the secretary to the treasury  which included all the specific instructions .
the department did a review on 2014 budget and based on critical assessment  worked out a ministrywise potential budget .
by midaugust 2014 the department sent the indicative estimates for 2015 for each ministry with the detailed letter indicating the assumptions used to derive those estimates based on these  the ministries were requested to submit their draft estimates by september 2014 for negotiations between the treasury and the relevant line ministry .
after holding longterm discussions separately for ministries  it was confirmed whether the provisions have been allocated properly for all the projects .
special activities .
budgetary management of non commercial public enterprises .
all matters relating to public finance and budgetary management of 122 enterprises statutory boards which are supported through the funds from the consolidated fund were carried out by the department of national budget during the year of 2014 .
the following functions with regard to these institutions were carried out by the department of national budget in 2014 to improve their financial and management efficiency .
review the performance and the progress of these statutory boards  by analyzing and examining the annual budget  annual action plan  annual accounts and annual report etc .
revising of the requests for release of monthly cash imprest on the recurrent and the capital grants along with department of treasury operation .
assist  prepare and submit reports of the financial performance and management of statutory boards to the committee on public enterprises cope  when the cope meetings are convened by parliament .
grant approval for the purchase of new vehicles required by these enterprises .
purchasing and handing over new vehicles under the financial leasing method and when necessary .
review the audit examine reports of the auditor general and the special audit quarries submitted to this department .
coordinate with the relevant statutory boards on resolving these quarries and ensure that the remedial actions are taken to avoid occurrence of such audit quarries in the future .
submit recommendations to the department of management services on the recruitment of new staff to statutory boards based on availability of budgetary provisions and actual needs of such institutions .
grant approval of the department of the national budget to travel abroad for various purposes trainings  meetings  seminars  conference etc .
advice and coordinate with the statutory boards on the other financial and management issues such as implementation of mega capital projects etc .
observations on cabinet memoranda .
during the year 2014  the department prepared observations to 399 cabinet memoranda for the hon minister of finance and planning .
coordinating “deyata kirula” development program 2014 .
the department of national budget has been involved in coordination of deyata kirula national development programme such as  organizing prediscussions  identification of areas to implement the program  identification of ongoing and new development projects in respective areas and expedite and prioritize  preparing  submitting cabinet memorandum  participating in national operational committees  procurement committees and overall fund management .
in addition  the national budget department was responsible in releasing the funds timely for the projects and programmes approved by the cabinet ensuring their smooth implementation .
approval for the purchase of vehicles .
national budget approval for vehicle procurements .
in terms of the cabinet decision of 31st january 1990  the national budget department grants approval for purchase of vehicles by government institutions all ministries  departments  provincial councils  local authorities and all statutory boards  corporations and government owned companies gocs whether under selffinancing or otherwise  had to obtain the prior approval of the committee for any such purchase .
accordingly  the national budget department continued reviewing the requests for procurement of vehicles by various government agencies and given approvals .
during the year 2014  the department has given approval for purchase of 1496 vehicles and n0 of vehicles purchased by each category stated the table below .
table 41 vehicles approved by the department of national budget by vehicle type  in 2014 .
type of vehicle .
no of vehicles approved .
motor cars .
jeeps .
vans .
buses .
cabssingle  doublecrew .
three wheelers .
lorries  trucks .
motor cycles .
ambulances .
others tractors trailers water bowsers  etc .
total .
source  department of national budget .
procurement of vehicles to the public sector .
continuing the purchasing of vehicles for the use of government agencies on financial leasing method with approval of the cabinet of ministers on 30082010  the government has made an attempt to manage the public expenditure efficiently .
this method was applied as a part of cash flow management as the cost of vehicles could be distributed over 05 years .
however  at the end the vehicle becomes an asset of the concerned agency .
accordingly  the department of national budget has continued purchasing vehicles for government agencies by calling competitive bidding from the state leasing companies of banks .
upto now 3 916 vehicles have been purchased  including the vehicles used for chogm  on leasing installments to be paid over 05 years period in equal monthly installments .
the purchased vehicles have been distributed among government agencies on the basis of a need assessment conducted by the department of national budget in consultation with relevant agencies .
participation of staff on boards and committees .
most of the staff officers of this department have served as directors treasury representatives on the boards of directors of statutory boards  public corporations and government owned companies gocs  while some officers have served as members	of cabinet appointed tender boards catbs 	and technical evaluation committees tecs representing the secretary to the treasury in these committees .
in addition  staff officers of this department attended meetings of the committee on public accounts copa and the committee on public enterprises cope in parliament  representing the department .
the organizational structure and role of the department of national budget .
the organizational structure and role of the national budget department have been constructed with a categorization under the following comprehensive sectors which represent the provisions of liner ministries expenditure estimates .
public services .
national security and law enforcement .
human resources .
infrastructure .
finance .
social security .
environment .
real economy .
staff .
numbers of officers under the following service levels were in the organizational structure of nbd in year 2014 as per the public administration circular no 062006 .
service level .
senior level .
tertiary level .
secondary level .
primary level .
no of officers .
as at the end of the year 2014  the approved cadre and the actual cadre of the department were as follows .
table 51 cadre of the year  2014 .
designation .
approved no of officers .
actual no of officers .
director general .
additional director general .
director .
deputy director .
assistant director .
accountant .
administrative officer .
translator .
project officer .
budget assistant .
research assistant .
development assistant .
management assistant .
driver .
office assistant .
total .
human resource development .
the department has directed its staff to the following local and foreign training programmes in 2014  in order to enhance their professional skills and working efficiency  in addition to attending various meetings in their official capacities .
foreign trainingsseminars meetings .
table 52 foreign trainingsseminars meetings 2014 .
name of the officer .
designation .
programme .
trained country .
duration of the training .
director general .
international monetary fund  world bank spring meeting .
washington .
11042014  13042014 .
sri lanka investment  business promotional seminar .
sweden .
27112014 .
additional director general .
united nations economic and social commission for the pacific  asia 70th sessionphase i escap .
bangkok  thailand .
23052014 .
united nations economic and social commission for the pacific  asia 70th sessionphase iiescap .
thailand .
04082014 .
bangkok .
08082014 .
assistant director .
workshop  parliamentary briefing on sustainable immunization financing .
cambodia .
20072014  23072014 .
noncommunicable disease in the south –east region .
india .
18082014  21082014 .
local trainings .
the following staff members were given local training in different fields in the year 2014 .
table 53 local trainings .
name of the officer .
designation .
programme .
institute .
duration .
assistant director .
postgraduate diploma in economic development .
university of colombo .
01012014  31122014 .
asst director .
postgraduate diploma in economic development .
university of colombo .
01012014  31122014 .
development officer .
postgraduate degree  economics .
university of kelaniya .
20142015 .
budget assistant .
postgraduate degree  economis .
university of kelaniya .
20142015 .
financial administration of the department of national budget .
budgetary provision required for the normal operations of the department of national budget was shown under head 240 in the budget estimates for 2014 and allocations were provided under 2 programmes .
a	programme	01 .
operational activities .
project of the programme .
01 budget formulation and policy .
b	programme .
02  development activities .
the provision related to departmental administrative expenditure on budget formulations and policies was provided by the project no 01 while project 02  provided allocation for facilitating unexpected and unforeseen expenditure required by various spending agencies .
the budget also provided for the implementation of the budget proposals announced in the annual budget 2014 and the government s policy priorities .
the above total provision was utilized as follows .
1	programme 01 .
expenditure of project .
2	programme 02 .
provisions transferred to other	heads under project .
total .
balance provision .
public officers  advance account activities .
table 54  public officers  advance account for 2014 .
category .
maximum limit of expenditure .
minimum limit of receipts .
maximum limit of debit balances .
source  department of national budget .
source  department of national budget .
in terms of the budget circular no 114 of 31122003  figures of the above table comprised only the transactions occurred under the advance account item no 240under 011  within the department .
according to circular no 118  loan balances of officers who had been transferred out or in  were settled with accounting heads  under the advance account item no 240012 .
the department had complied within the authorized limits of public officers’ advance account  accordingly .
table 55  loans given in year 2014 .
loanadvance .
festival advance .
special advance .
distress and bicycle loans .
total .
source  department of national budget .
auditor general’s queries for 2014 .
during the year 2014  07 queries were referred to this department by the auditor general and all the quarries were duly answered .
annual performance report .
ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages .
contents .
page number .
1introduction .
2the institutional structure of institutions under the ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages .
3the progress of institutions under the ministry of national coexistence  dialogues and national languages .
31languages division .
32social integration and ethnic affairs division .
33administration division .
34planning division .
35finance division .
36internal audit division .
4department of official languages and its progress .
5official languages commission and its progress .
6national institute of language education and training and its progress .
7national secretariat for nongovernmental organizations .
8foreign funded projects under the ministry .
81facilitating social transformation and integration projects .
82project for enforcement of law  accessing justice and strengthening of social integration .
9allocation of funds .
10advance accounts .
11review .
01introduction .
the ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages was established under the extraordinary gazette notification of no193313 and dated 21092015 .
prior to that  the national languages and social integration unit functioned under the ministry of public administration  provincial councils and local government and democratic governance under the notification of the extraordinary gazette no189715 and dated 18012015 and prior to 08012015 the ministry had been established as the ministry of national languages and social integration .
the ministry is situated at no40 buthgamuwa road  rajagiriya .
vision .
a sri lankan nation strengthened by diversity  with reestablished coexistence and nourished cultural identities of all communities .
mission .
formulating policies  creating dialogues  guiding and facilitating in order to build a developed society with rights of all communities ensured  mutual respect and coexistence and implementing a relevant programme to achieve them .
activities and functions of the ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages .
formulating policies  programmes  projects regarding the subjects of departments and statutory bodies under the subject of national coexistence and the ministry and monitoring and evaluating them .
implementation of official languages policy and related matters .
introducing and implementing necessary programmes of dialogues essential for reestablishment of solidarity and coexistence among ethnic groups .
providing necessary facilities for the use of national languages and link language in order to create an environment among ethnic groups for understanding social and religious backgrounds .
2the structure of the institutions under the ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages .
ministry of national coexistance  dialogue and official languages and its divisions .
sabaragamuwa provincial centre .
kuruwita rathnapura .
ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages .
web  wwwlanintegmingovlk .
northern provincial centre .
thirunagar  kilinochchi .
language division .
tp .
fax .
social integration and ethnic affairs .
language division .
administration division .
planning division .
finance division .
internal audit division .
ministry of national coexistence dialogue and official languages and its divisions .
institutions under the ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages .
department of official languages .
official languages commission .
national institute of language education and training .
national secretariat for nongovernmental organizations .
foreign funded projects under the ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages .
facilitating projects for social transformation and cohesion .
the strengthening of law  access to justice and social integration .
03divisions of ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages and their performance .
31languages division .
introduction .
implementing relevant programmes in sri lanka with regard to implementing the official languages policy  monitoring the implementation of the official languages policy and taking policy decisions are performed by language division .
the following are given high priority among the matters considered first in planning the programmes of the language unit .
of the recommendations of the lessons learned and reconciliation commission   implementing the appropriate recommendations to implement the language policy .
implementing the recommendations given in relation to the implementation of the official language policy in accordance with the national policy on the protection of human rights .
implementation of the recommendations of the officers  committee report in relation to the acquisition of language proficiency by public officers .
objectives .
planning and compiling of policy to implement the official language policy .
building the necessary background for making public service bilingual .
empowering the general public in relation to the implementation of official language policy .
effecting a positive mentality among the general public of sri lanka in relation to propagation and promotion of language .
during the course of 2015  the language division conducted programmes under 04 main targets namely .
1 national languages development programme .
2 people’s action for bilingualism .
3 trilingual sri lanka programme .
4 programmes conducted in collaboration with the national language project from 01012015 to 31052015 only .
311national languages development programme .
1facilitation of language plan programme .
it is notified that all public institutions shall prepare a strategic plan to implement the policy on official languages as per the public circular no 182009 .
in order to facilitate institutions in this connection  this ministry has compiled and published a guide book to help public institutions prepare language plans .
while the ministry  which has taken the subject of  implementing the official language policy effectively under its scope  has initiated the language plan facilitation programme with the objective of facilitating and preparing language plans in state institutions  the following activities have been implemented under the programme thus far .
identification and training of relevant officers technical committees on preparation of language plans .
a group of 54 officers belonging to institutions affiliated to the ministry and field officers was identified and given technical training on preparation of language plans under two programmes on training of trainers .
the first programme of it was conducted for 25 officers from 22042015 to 24042015 .
the second  was conducted for 29 field officers from  09092015 to 11092015 .
the task of preparing language plans relevant to hisher field of service within a specified period of time was given to the trained officers in terms of an assignment .
accordingly  the ministry and its affiliated institutions and all district secretariats have commenced preparing language plans and training the officers concerned .
it is of special significance that the officers  who have been selected by ministries  provincial secretariats and district secretariats  contributing their technical expertise in the preparation of language plans .
commencing programmes on facilitation of language plans in ministries .
under this programme  providing facilitation to 5 ministries in relation to language plansministry of justice  ministry of parliamentary reforms and mass media  ministry of home affairs  ministry of public administration and management  ministry of law and order and prison reformshas been commenced .
accordingly  an awareness programme on preparation of language plans was conducted for officers of the institutions under the ministry of parliamentary reforms and mass media on 16102015 .
commencement of the process of facilitation of language plans in district and divisional secretariats .
followed by an awareness programme  preparation of language plans has been commenced in badulla  galle  kandy  kurunegala  nuwataeliya and rathnapura districts and at the divisional secretariat of kothmale .
providing officers of national integration promotion coordinatorsassistants with the training on preparation of language plans .
under this programme  officers coming under the purview of anuradhapura  kandy  kurunegala  nuwaraeliya and rathnapura districts have been provided with the training concerned .
the officers concerned are engaged in preparing language plans for the offices they are attached to .
production of tools and accessories relevant to the implementation of the official language policy .
reprinting  of the language guidelines books .
steps were taken to prepare 2000 copies of the guidelines book and 2000 cds of the same for devising language plans in government institutions .
the language guidelines books are used as learning aids in programmes on facilitation of language plans .
reprinting of the sinhalatamil alphabet books .
20 000 copies of the sinhalatamil alphabet books were printed as per the recommendations of the report of the committee appointed for identifying strategies for enhancing language proficiency of the public officers .
these books have been distributed to the government institutions on priority based requests .
creating audiovisual tools essential for regional level bilingual administration .
initiative has been underway in preparing five digital video disksdvdbased on five common occasions where bilingual conversations take place in government institutions .
in this connection  the initial part of the work has been completed and the future activities are expected to be completed in 2016 .
use of these tools will enhance the  opportunity of delivering the general public the bilingual services .
compilation of the ministerial news letter “apurwa nadee” .
first and second issues of the “apurwa nade” were compiled and 3000 copies of them were distributed .
accordingly  these“apurwa nade” news letters have been distributed to all ministries  district secretariats and divisional secretariats .
further  action has been taken to send the copies of this news letters by post to the language associations registered with the ministry .
an attempt has been made through the newsletter “apurwa nadee” at opening a dialogue among various sectors of the society about the importance of achieving national harmony through bilingual skills .
thus  a number of articles on buddhism and social integration  importance of multilingualism and insightful artistic songs at stimulating interethnic feelings have been successfully released .
conducting conversational workshops on the implementation of the official language policy .
as for the efficient implementation of the official language policy  it is of great importance that the awareness of public officers implementing the official language policy needs to be enhanced .
focusing on this objective  institutional heads representing various sectors have been educated by the language division with regard to implementation of the official language policy .
accordingly  hqis of police stations  heads of local governments and other officials as well as school students have been acquainted with the legal provisions with regards to the implementation of the official language policy .
around 1000 police officers including high ranking officers of 78 police stations in rathnapura  kegalle  nuwaraeliya and badulla districts have participated in these programmes .
further  around 600 officers of government institutions coming under jurisdiction of the northern provincial council  sabaragamuwa provincial council  southern provincial council and north western provincial council have also been educated with regards to the implementation of the official language policy .
under this  programme  the language division has enhanced the awareness of around 2 880 students in kandy  matara  ampara  gampaha  colombo  kalutara and batiicaloa districts on the implementation of the official language policy .
the structure of these programmes is designed so as to give the target groups an understanding of the official language policy and legal provisions  policy framework of social integration  the role of the ministry and its affiliated institutions  implementing the official language policy .
accordingly  lectures by scholars  computer presentations and group activities were used in these workshops .
the service of ministerial officers  trained as trainers  could be obtained in all programmes conducted for school children in this connection .
since providing a basic knowledge on preparation of the language plans of the targeted institutions was one of the objectives of these programmes  the requisite technical knowledge was also provided with the officers .
04establishment of bilingual facilitation booths at district secretariats and divisional secretariats .
since 2012  bilingual facilitation booths have been in the process of being established with a view to enhance facilities for the people to get their service done in the language of their choice .
on that basis  bilingual facilitation booths in all the72 divisional secretariats located in the 72 bilingual divisional secretariat divisions have been established by this ministry .
the field officers  attached to this ministry  have been directed to these divisional secretariats so as to render a more effective service for the general public .
in the year 2013  having taken another step forward  the ministry successfully completed establishing bilingual service booths at 19 divisional secretariats .
in 2014  having established bilingual facilitation booths in 06 divisional secretariats and 08 district secretariats  the ministry in 2015 established such booths in the district secretariats located in colombo  trincomalee  puttalam and in divisional secretariats located in lahugala  padiyathalawa  kundasale  kegalle and monaragala .
05 establishing 14 innovative model centres in order to strengthen the process of implementing the official language policy .
•attention was paid to 04 main aspects that need  be taken into consideration in the implementation of the official language policy viz .
reflecting  upon the implementation of the official language policy .
preparing an administrative mechanism and a documentation process with regard to implementation of the official language policy .
providing the services with regards to implementation of the official language policy .
institutional commitment towards the implementation of the official language policy .
in line with the above initiative  14 government institutions representing different sectors in sri lanka  selected under the fund of canadian government by the ministry  were entrusted with the task of building inovative models in impllementing the national language policy .
on that basis under the national languages project  14 government institutions were selected based on 04 criteria by the asian foundation and developed as innovative model centres .
among those institutions 07 provincial councils  01 divisional secretariat  03 police stations and 03 hospitals were built as innovative models .
14 government institutions identified by the government in 2015 were futher  empowered as innovative model centres implementing official language policy .
the main purpose of this initiative was to maintain these institutions as models that set examples to other government institutions related to this subject .
under the initiative  the weaknesses in implementing the official language policy in the above institutions are being identified by rechecking the check list .
accordingly  the language division provided necessary provisions for implementing sustainable development programmes necessary to implement the official language policy .
under this activity  money allocations were made to the positive projects given to us kanthale pradeshiya sabha  bandarawela district secretariat  nuwaraelya municiple council .
accordingly  provisions are to be made next year to galle  mahamodara teaching hospital  nuwaraeliya police station and trincomalee base hospital which have sent project reports .
06setting up of trilingual sign boards at district secretariats and divisional secretariats .
providing necessary funds for setting up of trilingual sign boards at government institutions with a view to reflecting upon the implementation of the official language policy is yet another worthwhile initiative implemented by the language division .
on that basis  action has been taken to provide funds to bilingual divisional secretariats .
accordingly  provisions of funds have been provided to 22 divisional secretariats .
07promotion of national languages through mass media .
the main objective of this programme is to enhance the radio listeners’ awareness of the role of the ministry  the language policy and the social integration policy .
accordingly  the ministry has contributed towards two radio programmes to be broadcast in the sinhala and the tamil languages .
thus  the radio programme “palamapalam bridge was broadcast on the commercial service of the sri lanka broadcasting corporation and the thendral fm from january 2015 to september 2015 .
it was telecast on every sunday from 1030 am to 1100 am .
while 38 programmes of it were  broadcast  action was also taken to broadcast it in the ministry on every wednesday .
subsequently  the ministry contributed towards 18 programmes of  “subharathividiyum velai” during the period from october to december 2015 .
listeners were made aware of the programmes through teaser programme .
08 making provisions for the special projects related to social integration week .
the language division identified various programmes related to the social integration week annually declared by the ministry .
of the above projects  five most effective projects were given financial provisions by the language division .
of the above projects  the following projects are very special .
providing funds for the development of infrastructure facilities of a mixed school with less facilities located in monaragala .
taking steps to create a learningfriendly environment in a school for children in negombo .
making provisions for setting up of trilingual sign boards at the cancer institute in maharagama to reflect upon the implementation of the official language policy .
improving the infrastructure facilities of 2 villages located in haputhale where the plantation people reside .
development of a preschool in huseniyagamapura in puttalam .
312people’s movement for bilingual action programme .
01establishment of language associations .
national movement for language associations can be identified as a programme for acquainting the general public with the importance of implementing the official language policy aimed at creating a sri lankan nation enriched with equality and endearingly intertwined by the two languages .
since this programme was initiated in 2012  up to now a total of 2 428 language associations have been established island wide .
language associations registered in 2015 are 279 .
in line with the above program  206 language classes have been established covering the 25 districts with a view to enhancing sinhala and tamil language learning skills a well as improving bilingualism .
accordingly  understanding the value of the implementation of the official language policy by the general public in their residential areas will contribute towards bringing about coexistence in the society .
providing provisions for projects proposed by the language associations in relation to promotion of official languages and social coexistence .
implementation of various projects with the objective of building national harmony and mutual understanding among people in different areas of the country is another fuction being carried out by the language associations .
among the above programmes  organization of sinhalatamil national festivals  youth exchange programmes  conducting programmes to generate selfemployment opportunities through language proficiency  organization of friendship camps for enhancing sinhala–tamil intimacy etc could be worth mentioning .
in 2015  the language division had been able to provide funds for 87 projects submitted by language associations established in different areas of the country .
developing 04 identified  divisional secretariats as innovative model centres .
transformation of 04 government offices into innovative model centers is a programme commenced by the language division from this year .
under this programme  process of facilitation has been started by the  provincial centres to develope kuruwita and rathnapura divisional secretariats and karachchi and punagari divisional secretariats as innovative model centres .
under this programme  the language division conducted an awareness programme to the public officers  including chief official language implementation officer and the official language implementation officer of the relevant divisional secretariats on the implementation of the official language policy and afterwards it provided them with necessary guidance to prepare language plans and implement the official language policy effectively in their respective institutions .
at the conclusion of the initial programme  steps were taken to give the assignments to prepare language plans in relation to the institutions concerned and now the task of preparing language planns are taking place at the institutions concerned .
the technical guidance required in this regard will be provided by the officers of the language division who have been trained in preparing language plans .
313trilingual sri lanka programme .
under this programme  funds were provided to the national institute of language education and training for conducting language classes .
314programmes conducted in collaboration with the national language projects .
01 providing the national language division with the necessary technical assistance for planning of programmes relevant to implementation of the official language policy  leadership and institutional empowerment .
workshop for training of focal point officers on gender .
26 focal point officers  who were selected subsequent to the gender sensitization programme series held in 2014  successfully completed a threeday work shop on promotion of gender .
officers of the ministry and its affiliated institutions  representing sinhala and tamil mediums attended the workshop .
at the end of the programme  the preparation of an approximate action plan for implementation of gender sensitization programmes of their respective institutions took place .
setting up of bilingual facilitation booths .
bilingual facilitation booths established in morawewa and walapane district secretariats were provided with infrastructure facilities .
thus  both booths were furnished with required computers and other accessories .
bilingual facilitation services are being rendered through the national integration promotion coordination officers attached to these offices from the ministry .
02 provision of technical assistance for implementation of the official language policy .
compilation of the hand book on implementation of the official language policy and legal provisions .
a hand book containing the official language policy and related law was complied to be used along with the hand book of language guidelines on preparation of language policy in public institutions .
information on all circulars issued and acts passed thus far pertaining to the implementation of the official language policy are made available to the public officers through this book .
1500 copies of the book and 3000 cds containing the guidelines of hand book have been produced .
these tools are made use of in the programmes organized by the ministry for implementation of the official language policy .
technical training on preparation of language plans .
the needs assessment workshop with regard to carrying out technical training for preparation of language plans of the government institutions was conducted with the contribution of the asia foundation .
subsequently  the compilation of the following hand books on preparation of language plans of the government institutions took place .
hand book of simple language guidelines for preparation of language plans at ministry and department level .
hand book of simple language guidelines for preparation of language plans of the district secretariats and divisional secretariats .
hand book of simple language guidelines for empowerment of ministerial focal point officers on preparation of language plans .
preparation of the hand book of issuesolutions to manage the calls received by the language call center with regard to preparation of language plans .
training of technical officers on utilizing these hands book in preparation of language plans was carried out with the financial contribution of the national language project and the technical contribution of the asia foundation .
accordingly  empowering of 54 officers of the ministry and its affiliated institutions as language plan technical committee officers took place .
these officers contribute the technical knowledge in the training programmes on preparation of language plans  conducted by the ministry .
03 contribution to the language road map programme .
contributing towards the language road map of the ministry .
language road map can be introduced as a fiveyear strategic plan for efficient and effective implementation of the official language policy in government institutions .
while this is a document installed  within ministries from the ground level to the national level  it contains the strategic plans and policy solutions relevant to efficient and effective implementation of the official language policy in the respective institutions .
compilation of the simplified road map document containing the facts to be considered by the other ministries in the preparation of their road maps  is yet another undertaking being carried out with the technical contribution of the national language project .
whilst all the documents are available in sinhala  tamil and english languages  these documents need to be revised in line with the subject scope of the new ministry .
concluding ceremony of the national language project .
this event was held in colombo on 24042015 .
during the course of the event  discussions and presentations based on the success of the national language  projects carried out from the initial stages up to now took place .
during the course of the event  of the projects initiated by the national language project  those projects to be continued in the future as well were discussed .
in the sidelines of the programme  an attempt at obtaining a rough understanding of the network systems needed for the future activities of the ministry also made .
04programme on the establishment of regional level innovative models .
under this programme  02 needs assessment workshops were conducted to identify the needs in providing technical training relevant to the preparation of language plans of the government institutions .
preparation of the hand book of issues solutions essential for managing the calls received by the language call center with regard to preparation of language plans .
compiling the handbook of simple language guidelines for preparation of language plans at ministerial and departmental level took place .
the ministry was introduced the innovative model centres expansion programme aimed at extending the concept of innovative model centres to the other government institutions as well .
accordingly  04 divisional secretariats and 02 pradesheeya sabha are developed by the ministry as innovative model centres .
05empowerment of provincial centres .
the national languages project has provided infrastructure facilities for the sabaragamuwa provincial center and  technical assistance for the programmes being conducted by the representatives of language associations in collaboration with sabaragamuwa provincial centre .
the management planning bill for maintaining a good management of the provincial centers has been handed over to the ministry .
performance as per the action plan .
financial progress of the language division .
01 national languages development programme .
02 bilingual public action programme .
03 trilingual programme .
total .
estimated expenditure .
actual expenditure .
32social integration and ethnic affairs division .
introduction .
creating a better society for all the people to live on the basis that all the people living in a country are its citizens  will lead the country towards the development .
there must be a clear path in order to achieve that target .
for instance  we should work within the framework of an appropriate policy .
however  there had not been a policy for social integration in the country and hence the ministry of national languages and social integration stepped forward to formulate the national policy for social integration .
the objectives of this policy are promoting a sense of responsibility in all citizens as equal partners in the process of promoting social integration and creating a sense of belongingness to the society  creating a society nourished by the pillars of discipline  education and empowerment and strengthening the basis of social integration policy .
one of the objectives of this process is  identifying the importance of communication and a common media with a sense of social responsibility as an intermedium that could contribute towards social integration .
321 social integration week .
cabinet approval had been granted on 20120719 to hold social integration week annually .
although social integration week was not held due to the changes took place in the country in 2015  several parallel programmes  such as social welfare and educational programmes were held islandwide .
there are several ethnic groups based on race  caste  religious beliefs  cultural background and gender living in the society .
all these groups and ethnic divides stand united and carry out programmes contributing labour with commitments .
these programmes are carried out such a way that the benefits of them reach all the people living in the society .
on that basis  programmes carried out on regional level with the contribution of the people of the society is one of the programmes of social integration week .
under this programme  essential basic facilities such as rehabilitation of preschools  children parks  health facilities  elders  homes  community centres and supplying drinking water  rehabilitating bridges  roads  school buildings were carried out .
in the year 2015  two programmes per district were carried out .
community centre prior to the rehabilitation .
community centre after the rehabilitation .
one of the main programmes of the social integration week was the conducting of the year 5 scholarship program  aimed at empowering school children gain access to education as one of the seven elements of social integration .
under this programme  steps were also taken to hold a discussion based on answering model question papers of year 5 scholarship examination  for students of difficult areas .
under this programme commenced in 2013  two programmes per district were carried out .
in compliance with  the requests received  79 such programmes were conducted in 2015 38 of them 38 were sinhala medium programmes while 41 were tamil medium programmes .
in 2015  11862 sinhala medium students and 11793 tamil medium students were benefitted out of these programmes .
in 2015 45 social integration programmes parallel to social integration week with the contribution of language societies were implemented .
under these programmes  there were programmes to develop friendliness  knowledge of language  skills and attitude among ethnic groups and initiatives to prepare name boards in three languages in monaragala and buttala divisional secretariats .
through these programmes  many benefits such as improvement of education  economic and infrastructure facilities  building of mutual understanding and trust among ethnic groups  awareness of social integration were granted to the marginalized general public .
programmes of this nature were carried out with the objective of taking the multiethnic  multireligious  peaceful country with several social strata respecting one another towards accelerated development .
322 mobile services for providing legal documents .
the objective of this programme is to provide the impoverished people in the society with  basic legal documents essential to live as one of the fellow citizens in the society by creating mutual trust among all sri lankans regardless of ethnic differences .
while steps were taken to  provide the people with an opportunity to obtain all these services in one place  all these services were provided to the people free of charge without any interruption .
for instance  charges for photos and stamps for nic  birth certificates  marriage certificates and death certificates and charges for new marriages were provided with individuals concerned without being charged .
while this enables people to save time and labour  this also helps them to obtain the nic  the document essential to establish their identity as citizens and thereby get themselves socialized .
mobile services were conducted for providing civic documentations  covering five divisional secretariats in the year 2015 .
these mobile services were conducted in hanguranketa  walapane  ayagama  pelmadulla and haliella divisional secretariats .
in addition to that  5000 legal documentation folders with details  were printed and distributed among all the families each in kiriella divisional secretariat to keep their legal documents safely .
services rendered .
issuance of national identity cardsnics have been provided to about 967 individuals in 2015 .
issuance of birth certificates  registration of late births  making amendments  probable birth certificatesabout 2073 documents of the above nature have been issued in 2015 .
registrations of new marriages30 couples  who had been living together without married  were registered free of charge in 2015 .
issuing of police reports  for lost national identity cards  police reports were issued in place of lost nics free of charge .
issuing passports  issuing certificates of justice of peace  steps were also taken to provide affidavits in relation to nic’s  birth  marriage and death certificates .
issuance of senior citizens  identity cards  steps were taken to provide senior citizens with photos free of charge and thereby to provide nics .
approximately 507 senior citizens were benefited by this programme in 2015 .
these mobile services were carried out covering especially the northern and eastern provinces  plantation  regions and backward areas .
mullathive  kilinochchi  mannar  batticaloa  trincomalee  ampara  ratnapura  badulla and nuwara eliya districts .
since 2013  steps have been taken to conduct mobile services from 2014 based on the statistics identified in 12 districts under the project equal access to justice of the ministry to issue legal documents .
323 youth camp for social integration .
the objective of this youth camp is to create a young society knit with wholeheartedly by creating social integration based on peace  coexistence and social integration among youths of different ethnic groups .
“social integration” youth camps are held annually by the ministry as one of the special programmes in recognition of them as a leading group capable of taking up the future and bringing about a social change .
04 youth camps per year are organized and there are facilities for about 100150 males and females around the age of 1830 representing sinhala  tamil and muslim nationalities to take part in a camp .
this youth camp includes programmes to develop leadership and skills  lectures by university lecturers  music as a medium of social integration in  establishing  reconciliation amongst the youth  programmes on methods of teaching tamil  sinhala and english languages and avenues for youths to expose their talents .
in 2015  there were two camps held and about 200 youths participated in them .
vocational training authority briefed the youths participated in the camp on the trainings available through vocational guidance service and also took action to provide them with employment opportunities .
324 social integration programme for orphans and single parented children .
access to education is one of the goals of the policy of social integration .
attention is focused on preventing any injustice or marginalization within the education sector caused by  socioeconomic inequalities or ethnicity or religion in order to provide the right of access to education .
a programme to provide school equipment to school  children of marginalized groups  who have a single guardian or lost their parents  has been implemented by our ministry in order to help them gain access to education .
this programme was implemented in puttlam  kurunegala  kandy  batticaloa  matara and colombo districts in the year 2015 .
more than 1270 schools children were benefited .
it helps to draw the attention of the disadvantaged school children towards education by facilitating them and  to socialize them through the development of knowledge  skills and attitudes of vulnerable groups in the community .
325 cultural and religious programmes .
sri lanka being a multi ethnic country  sinhala  tamil and muslim nationalities live in this country .
in accordance with these ethnic groups  their religions and cultures differ from each other .
such cultural festivals are thaipongal  sinhala hindu new year festival  haj festival  deepavali and christmas .
an event to celebrate different religious and cultural festivals of this nature is held at the ministry annually .
this event provides an opportunity to learn about the values ​​of different religions and cultures within the same community .
this ensures mutual trust  understanding  mutual respect and welcoming amongst each communities living in the society .
people belonging to all the ethnic groups take part in these festivals regardless of ethnic differences .
in 2015  festivals of this nature were conducted by the ministry in kandy  matale and colombo districts .
326 providing financial assistance to the social integration related activities carried out by other institutions .
with the objective of building social integration   events related to social integration are held with the collaboration of other institutions or financing them are done by our ministry .
accordingly  the programmes for which financial assistance was given in 2015 are as follows .
kalutaraproviding wooden furniture for diri daru piyasa children’s home children with mental retardationbandaragama .
galleproviding learning materials and stationeries essential to the special education units of two schools in thavalama .
for the school children of the special education units in vidyaraja vidyalaya in thavalama and mahabodhi vidyalaya in panangala .
gampahaproviding sanitary facilities to the community hall located in mahaththuwa grama niladari division .
kurunegaladevelopment programme for special needs children under “apen obata athwelak” in kurunegalafive selected divisional secretariats in the district .
puttlamsocializing school children of less resourced  schools located in difficult areas by assuring their future through vocational training and providing books for school libraries concerned .
sinhala  tamil and muslim students of 04 selected schools in vanathawilluwa and kalpitiya divisional secretariats .
matara thihaagoda fostering national unity in the hearts of the children by wall painting .
painting competition for school children and awareness programme on language policysocial integration .
mannar–programme on peacebuilding and coexistence based on the experience gained by cultural and sports .
jaffna–providing water and sanitary facilities for vigneshwara preschool located in wadewatta gs division .
ratnapurabuilding social integration by establishing cooperative education programme in balangoda .
establishing library facilities at rassagala tamil vidyalaya and rassagala sinhala vidyalaya .
kalutara04 day educational tour to build national unity by languages programmegrade 1011 tamil learning students of horana  sripalee vidyalaya .
colomboprotecting children by preventing child abuse and harassment of children  from taking place in timbirigasyaya .
kelaniya–empowering programme for differently abled children .
agalawatta–constructing a toilet for students of tamil primary school located in galewatta  agalawatta .
matugama–constructing a toilet for the community hall located at 79 c badugama nawajanapada in matugama divisional secretariat .
colombo– seethawaka  senehasaka thaksalawa integration programme of students of schools located in the north and south .
students and teachers of stjohn bosco college and students and teachers of nageshwara vidyalaya in killinochchifurther  some programmes are carried out with the provisions of ministry of child development and women affairs .
among them  the programmes mentioned below have been conducted .
the awareness programme on the issues faced by the female employees in the government sector .
health clinic .
programme on prevention of gender based violence .
327 conducting dialogues involving religious leaders and community leaders towards enhancing social harmony .
while this programme was conducted with the objective of fostering mutual understanding among religions at divisional secretariats and building mutual trust and thereby building a society with mutual respect for each other  multireligious groups  teachers and students of damma schools  civil security group  community leaders  youth teams and government employees participated in the programme .
while the dialogue helped each member get an awareness of the religious and cultural facts of others  it also focused on the disputes taking place among religions and as to how they could be resolved .
giving priority to mitigate religious issues when cropping up among religions in the society  avoiding religious conflicts among religions  ensuring unity among religions are good deeds done by this programme .
programmes of this nature have been carried out at the divisional secretariats of badulla matara galle and kegalle districts .
328 dialogue with media towards enhancing social harmony .
performance as per the action plan .
financial progress of the social integration and ethnic affairs division .
implementing the national policy on social integration via stakeholders concerned .
ensuring socialization by effecting changes in knowledge  attitude and skills of vulnerable people .
creating awareness on the importance of protecting their uniqueness and developing mutual understanding in the society .
estimated cost .
actual cost .
33 administration division .
introduction .
main objectives of the administrative branch are maintaining better institutional administrative environment  managing human and physical resources  fulfiling career needs of staff and assisting the ministry in implementing its services .
functions of the administrative branch .
internal administration of the ministry .
getting approvals of carder .
preparing scheme of recruitment .
activities related to appointments  transfers and promotions .
maintenance of personal files .
disciplinary activities .
training .
maintenance of physical resources including building and vehicles .
coordinating parliament advisory committees .
preparing cabinet papers .
performance as per the action plan .
financial progress of the administration division .
compulsory tamil training programme for national integration coordinators under the programme of bilingual knowledge improvementstage iiv  days 10x06 .
initial training programme meant for national integration coordinators .
training programme to improve  knowledge  attitude and skills .
programme on bachelor degree studies .
programme on improvement of vocational training .
34 planning division .
introduction .
the planning division is one of the main divisions of the ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages .
projectsprograms implemented by the ministry to obtain results generated  efficiency  effectiveness are monitored and evaluated .
by reviewing the progress monthly and quarterly in terms of reports on the action plan and reporting back to the management on the instances of deviations from the expected targets .
the functions of the planning division .
coordinating with the divisions of ministry and the institutions functioning under the ministry to prepare the annual plan and the annual performance report of the ministry .
coordinating the implementation of the activities in relation to the pilot projects identified by the ministry .
regulating and evaluating the activities undertaken by the ministry and the institutions under it .
preparing the monthly  quarterly and annual progress reports and submitting them to the secretary to the ministry  department of national planning  department of national budget  department of project management and evaluation and any other interested parties .
preparing progress and action plan for the year ahead and submitting the same to the parliament during the course of the budget debates .
maintaining  updating and developing the data of the ministry .
preparing the annual performance report and submitting it to the parliament  ministry of finance and planning and auditor general .
35 finance division .
introduction .
coordinating the financial services  and relevant units and thereby preparing and maintaining positive financial ​information and financial management structure .
the main functions of the finance division .
assisting the secretary to the ministry in the capacity of chief accounting officer to implement the financial obligations of the ministry and be accountable for the parliament .
ensuring compliance with the financial obligations and regulations of the government .
establishing and maintaining a sound financial accounting structure including finance management .
coordinating with the treasury and the institutions under the ministry and foreign funded projects to prepareupdatereview financial reports and budgetary requirements and finalize accounts .
financial planning and budgeting .
ensuring timely and accurate financial reporting .
management of assets of the ministry .
36 internal audit division .
introduction .
assisting the management by reviewing  measuring  evaluating and reporting on compliance with the internal management system of services and functions carried out by the ministry and institutions functioning under it .
the functions of the internal audit unit .
evaluating the success of the system of internal control carried out in the ministry and other institutions under it in order to avoid errors and frauds and assisting to strengthen the internal administration .
ascertaining the reliability of the accounting and other reports and checking if the recognized accounting methods employed provide the information necessary for the preparation of correct financial statements .
appraising the quality of performance of the staff in carrying out the responsibility assigned to them .
ascertaining as to how the assets of ministry and its institutions are safeguarded from all kinds of losses .
monitoring whether the establishment code  financial regulation  public administration  treasury  and other circulars and instructions are adhered to .
carrying out special investigations whenever necessary .
conducting audit and management committees .
department of official languages and its performance .
department of official languages .
introduction .
department of official languages was established on 01101956 as an institution tasked with the implementation of official language act no 33 of 1956 .
both sinhala and english languages were made official languages of sri lanka while english language  was named the link language as per 13th and 16th amendments to the constitution of sri lanka enacted in 1987 and 1988 respectively .
as per the articles 18 and 19 of chapter iv of the constitution  department of official languages  as the facilitator for effective implementation of official language policy  is engaged in providing translations to the government in all three languages  enhancing the language competence of public officers  compiling glossaries and preparing textbooks and dictionaries .
the department of official languages situated at “bhasha mandiraya” no3417  kotte road  rajagiriya is headed by the commissioner of official languages .
vision .
peaceful trilingual society with coexistence .
mission .
providing facilities and coordination for implementing the official languages policy efficiently with the objective of establishing ethnic unity and peace .
major functions performed by the department .
conducting written and oral examinations and issuing certificates to the officers who are required to acquire official language proficiency in terms of public administration circular no012014 and 042014 .
carrying out translation tasks of government and semi–government institutionsin  sinhala  tamil  english .
compiling sinhala  tamil and english glossaries on various subjects .
compiling and selling of textbooks and guide books for the language proficiency tests of public officers .
compiling of trilingual glossaries .
teaching international languages just as sinhala  tamil  and english languages and holding examinations with the application of modern technology .
conducting language proficiency and efficiency bar examinations for the staff of external institutions .
providing practical training for those students who follow translation degree programmes in universities and other recognized educational institutions .
divisions such as examination  translation  language laboratory  publications and selling  glossary compilation  research  development and library have been established in the department to carry out the above functions .
41 providing facilities helpful to obtain language proficiency .
01printing of books and practical books .
the major function of the official languages department is to compile textbooks and other supportive books as a written media for professionals and all those interested in learning official languages .
accordingly  10 000 copies of “spoken tamil book” and 4 590 copies of “written tamil book “ were printed .
the major responsibility that was entrusted with the department was the formulation of 04 textbooks both in sinhala and tamil languages in simple style to be used easily with the view to providing facilities to learn the second language for public officers as per 82arecommendations under the implementation of recommendations made by the committee appointed by the cabinet of ministers  on the language proficiency of public officers .
preresearch workshop on teaching lessons in the sinhala textbook leveliv .
this workshop was conducted on 27 28  and 29082015 for the officers belonging to leveliv of the public service at trilingual learning centre in the city of jaffna .
sessions of pre–research workshop on teaching lessons in the sinhala textbook–level iv .
the task of compiling textbooks during the year 2015 was finalized and 10 000 copies of textbooklevel iv sinhala and tamil 30 000 copies of textbook– level iiisinhala and tamil  40 000 copies of textbooklevel ii sinhala and tamil  10 000 copies of textbook level1 have been handed over for printing .
02conducting language proficiency examinations .
conducting of written and oral examinations public officers  issuing of results and result sheets were carried out with the objective of assessing language proficiency of public officers and encouraging them to acquire bilingual language proficiency .
evaluation of listening skill test using technical instruments was commenced on 23rd october this year .
various instances of the workshop for preparing question papers for oral tests .
in 2015  written test for official languages proficiency level i  ii  iii  iv was held on 31052015 for 75 606 applicants .
the number of participants was 30582 .
under the programme of conducting oral tests for candidates who have passed written examination and  second language in gceol examinations  oral tests were conducted for 44 047 officers who passed the written examination in previous years .
44 047 results sheets and 297 certificates oldhave been issued .
also  issuing of  result sheet printed on a special protective paper for all candidates was commenced this year .
in 2015  steps were taken to conduct examinations for 11 external institutions .
42 providing translation services to government and semigovernment institutions and compiling glossaries .
providing translation services using state of the art technology and techniques is yet another specific role of the department .
under the task of providing necessary inputs for making translation work efficient a sinhalatamil autotranslation software is now being prepared in collaboration with the university of moratuwa .
similarly  letters equivalent to sinhalatamil languages are being translated .
for this purpose  training was provided to 04 officers of the department .
02 in order to improve the knowledge of experts  professionals  students and writers and generally all groups of people  a new trilingual glossary is being compiled  by the glossary section of the department .
under the programme .
building and construction technology .
glossaries related  to the army  navy and airforce .
police craftsmanship .
public administrationestablishment code .
financial regulation .
land administration .
information technologysinhala and english .
psychology .
law .
mathematics .
physics .
statistics .
agriculture .
botany .
history .
linguistics .
literature .
education .
twenty two 22 technical glossaries including counselling and economics were finalized and uploaded to the department web site .
43conducting seminars and research on language usage and  technology and providing recommendations and tools .
under this programme  computer based games sinhalatamil including 200 questions related to 10 different fields of the language were produced for improving the knowledge of language in a recreational way and uploaded to the web site .
information related  brand names in sinhala and tamil were gathered  letters were sent to 75 institutions to find the sinhala and tamil equivalents to them accordingly  95 brand names were received from 25 institutions and work pertaining to 27 brand names of 05 institutions has been completed and handed over to those institutions .
under the programme of uploading words in alphabetical order to the website  5000 words  have been identified and computerized .
in order to find a solution to the problems caused to those learning sinhala or tamil as a second language  a research book was formulated to facilitate them  under the name of a “a hand book  to write official letters in public service” and it has been given to be printed .
while formulating a standard form in writing  the common names of all sri lankan districts  cities and villages in sinhala  tamil and english  is  another objective  the task  was not implemented as it was implemented by the department of survey with its  representation .
programme on preparing language plans .
a workshop was held with the participation of 185 department officers to obtain  proposals for the preparation of a language plan on behalf of the department with the objective of encouraging the officers to work while the implementation of  official languages ​​policy .
the above awareness programme which was implemented under provisions of the department  was held on 03082015 .
a language plan was prepared in line with the proposal received accordingly  departmental name boards  notice boards were prepared as proposed in the language plan and displayed in all three languages .
attention of officers has been drawn to the fact that dealing with official documents should be in official languages .
various instances of the preparation of  language plans .
promotion of national and international language proficiency .
sinhala  tamil and english and foreign  language courses are being conducted in a language laboratory equipped with modern technology for those interested in  following national and international languages on halfyearly study courses .
during the year 2015  sinhala  tamil  english and foreign languages courses were  conducted successfully for 1500 students .
similarly  implementing the programme for promoting bilingual knowledge by using elearning distant mode of education methodologyfor 1st level and the establishment of computer based examination system to evaluate language proficiencyin collaboration with the department of examinationswere not implemented during 2015 and it has been proposed to commence them once the new language laboratory is opened .
also  certificate awarding ceremony in relation to the 2nd semester 2014  was held under the auspicious of honminister a mano ganesan in 2015 .
582 students were awarded certificates at the programme .
performance as per the action plan .
department of official languages .
estimated cost .
actual expenditure .
printing books and language text books likely to facilitate language proficiency and conducting language proficiency tests .
providing translation services for government and semi government institutions and compiling of glossaries .
conducting research and seminars on language usage and technology .
promoting national and international languages proficiency .
modernization of institutional environment .
implementing recommendations of the committee on language proficiency of public officers  appointed by the cabinet .
developing and analyzing methodologies and regulations .
development of human resources .
total .
official languages commission and its performance .
official languages commission .
introduction .
the official languages commission has been established under the provisions of the official languages commission act no 18 of 1991 .
the commission  consists of six members  appointed by his excellency the president .
one of them shall be nominated by the president to be the chairman of the commission .
the commissioner of the official languages department shall be the official secretary to the commission .
the new chairman and the members have been  appointed with effect from 05th august 2014 .
vision .
to be the organization empowered to ensure the implementation of the official languages policy by all organizations providing services to the public .
mission .
providing for the bilingual needs of the public through reviewing  monitoring  educating and advising on implementing the official language policy .
objectives .
to recommend principles of policy related to the use of the official languages and to monitor and supervise compliance with the provisions contained in chapter iv of the constitution .
taking all necessary measures and implementing them to ensure the use of the languages referred to in article 18 of the constitution hereinafter referred to as the “relevant languages”in accordance with the spirit and intent of chapter iv of the constitution .
promoting the evaluation of the official languages and recognizing  maintaining and taking forward their status equality and right of usage .
in responding to any complaints received  conducting self investigations and also taking remedial action as provided for by the provisions of this act .
functions .
initiating reviews of any regulations  directions or administrative practices  which affect or may affect  the status or use of one of the three languages .
issuing or applying researchers and policy statements that commission considers necessary in relation to the status or application of particular languages .
undertaking common educational activities including sponsoring or initiating publications or other media presentations considered suitable by the commission on the status or use of  languages concerned .
purchasing or otherwise acquiring any movable or immovable asset and maintaining  leasing or renting or selling  mortgaging or otherwise dealing with .
taking necessary measures to attain the objectives of the commission by taking any other necessary or appropriate measures to exercise the powers of the commission .
programmes implemented by official languages commission in 2015 .
51 creating awareness among public officers .
the objective of these programmes is to create awareness on the responsibility and legal background of public officers with regard to implementation of the official languages policy in government institutions .
two methods are being followed up by commission in implementing these programmes .
ie conducting common awareness creation programmes and conducting awareness creation programmes for identified  groups of public officers .
awareness creation programme among deans and secretaries of universities in western province  with regard to the official languages policy .
this awareness creation programme was organized after analyzing the complaints received by the commission in the  previous years with regard to violation of the official languages policy considering national universities as special fields .
accordingly  this workshop was held on 08102015 at central bank auditorium “center for banking studies”  rajagiriya .
all universities and affiliated institutions in the western province took part in this workshop .
special matters discussed .
official languages policy and its legal background .
in accordance with the provisions of the circular no042014 to implement the official languages policy in universities  a university student has the right to follow  his higher education in the language of his basic education .
the due place for official languages must be given in administration of university .
awareness creation among heads of private hospitals with regard to the official languages policy .
at present  the private sector provides various services for general public .
of which the health sector is special .
it has been observed by the commission that the general public has been greatly inconvenienced as most of the private hospitals deal with english language in rending their service .
because of that reason  an awareness creation programme with regard to the official languages policy was held for leading private hospitals in the district of colombo on 28082015 at the auditorium of the central bank  “center for banking studies”  ragagiriya .
officers from about 27 private hospitals took part in this programme .
officers from private medical services development division the regulatory institution of private hospitals of the ministry of health and the chairman  representing the association of private hospitals and nursing homes also participated in this programme .
a basic awareness creation with regard to the official languages policy was held  and subsequently a session for questions and discussions was held .
the following matters were discussed here .
obtaining the services of a translator in the case of doctors lacking bilingual proficiency .
nonavailability of trilingual announcements .
name boards  notice boards and information boards not being displayed in three languages .
lack of officers who are well versed in three languages .
difficulty in translating certain technical words and using them .
outcomes of the programmes .
following the programme  it was decided that the future activities should be carried forward by the commission .
making necessary arrangements to issue recommendations via private health services regulatory commission to prepare all boards displayed in private hospitals participated in the programme in three languages and make announcements in three languages within a time limit and monitoring the same .
obtain​ing assistance from private medical development division of the ministry of health with regard to implementation of the recommendations aforesaid .
03awareness creation programme among the officers of colombo municipal council .
an awareness programme under the awareness programme of creating awareness among field officers in the government institutions located in bilingual administrative areas under the instruction of the hon minister of national dialogues  was held for officers of colombo mmc and field officers of affiliated institutions on 20151130 at the auditorium of the department of training  mmc colombo .
after the awareness programme on the official language policy  a discussion with regard to the problems faced by officers when implementing the official languages policy and possible remedies was held .
52 language audits .
reviewing with regard to implementation of the official languages policy in institution audited up to 2014 .
recommendations have been given by the commission in relation to the institutions subjected to audit up to 2014 .
heads of relevant institutions will report the commission with regard to implementation of these recommendations .
the objectives of language audits are implementing  examining and reviewing the recommendations .
the follow up language audits conducted in 2015 are as follows .
divisional secretariats .
deltota .
akurana .
udapalatha .
ambangangakorale .
ukuwela .
hanguranketha .
kotmale .
ambagamuwa .
udunuwara .
doluwa .
gangaihalakorale .
negambo .
jaffna .
matale .
badulla .
passara .
haliela .
ella .
police stations .
kotmale .
negambo .
auditing of unaudited government institutions in bilingual administrative divisions .
divisional secretariats .
hambantota .
kataragama .
thanamalwila .
police stations .
kandy .
alawathugoda .
ukuwela .
rattota .
hanguranketha .
jaffna .
hambantota .
kataragama .
thanamalwila .
badulla .
passara .
hospitals .
general hospitalkandy .
teaching hospitalperadeniya .
district hospitalmatale .
divisional medical development unit–ukuwela .
base hospitalrikillagaskada .
health medical officer’s office–ambagamuwa .
institutions .
seegiriya world heritage .
university of colombo .
university of jaffna .
mahinda rajapaksha international airport of mattala .
53 printed media advertisements .
advertisements are published in main media by the commission focusing on important days and occasions commemorated by sri lankans .
two advertisements  depicting the message of importance of language rights and the official languages policy  together with greetings have been published in 2015 .
01 islandwide awareness creation programme for general pubic .
printed media notices .
there are two objectives in publishing printed media advertisements .
one objective is to create an awareness on language rights among general public and thereby create an interest towards a bilingual public service .
creating an awareness on the legal responsibility of public servants in providing a bilingual public service could be said as the other objective of this programme .
these advertisements are published in both languages focusing on main days of religious  cultural and national significance of sri lankans .
these messages will include a greeting along with messages with regard to the language rights of people and the responsibilities of public officers .
accordingly  the advertisements published in 2015 have been given below .
greeting pertaining to deepawali festival .
greeting pertaining to poson festival .
54 investigation of complaints .
investigating complaints with regard to violation of language rights is a primary task of the commission .
accordingly  of the 91 complaints received by commission in 2015 46 complaints have been resolved .
55 establishing and promoting language circles in school level and implementing school programmes via them .
the attention of the commission was drawn towards the importance of conducting programmes for school children based on the experiences got from school debates and speech contests organized by the commission in 2013 and 2014 .
as a future course of action of the above development  a decision was taken to establish language promotion circles in schools .
steps were taken by official languages commission to establish language circles with a long term objective of generating a trilingual environment in sri lanka through developing knowledge  attitudes and skills of school children with regard to the official languages policy .
under the above programme  the official languages commission expects to establish language circles in all the schools located island wide .
accordingly  it has been decided to conduct all activities taking place within schools  including displaying of main name board  in both languages via language circles .
the objective of establishing language circles in schools is to direct the student society towards the aim of generating one sri lankan nation twined by  bilingualism  to generate the attitudes and interest in student society towards using trilingual usage and to effect trilingual usage in all audible  visual  readable things in the school and also to develop the ability to convert the future society into a trilingual society .
the language circle consists of a panel which includes student representing each  class  the principal and teachers .
the activity identified by language circle is to display all boards including the school main board in three languages .
using sinhala  tamil and english in all the activities carried out in the school  conducting trilingual competitions and awarding prizes and certificates to the winners .
displaying trilingual alphabets  in schools  building words and sentences on daily  weekly and monthly basis and conducting programmes to encourage winners by giving points .
organizing programmes to exchange  cultural and social friendship with fellowship schools which follow other mediums of instruction .
implementing trilingual programmes in national festivals .
providing assistance to people in the neighbourhood with regards to their language needs and many other activities .
organizing relevant tasks to establish language circles in collaboration with the commission of official languages and ministry of education .
a circular in this regard has been issued to schools by the ministry of education .
in accordance with that circular  by now certain schools have  submitted their annual action plan to the commission .
performance as per the action plan .
financial progress of official languages commission .
estimated cost .
actual expenditure .
briefing universities and higher educational institutes .
awareness programme for the hospital staff .
reviewing random samples with regard to implementation of the official languages policy in institutions audited up to 2014 .
auditing of unaudited government institutions located in bilingual administrative divisions .
investigating complaints received with regard to violation of the official languages policy .
establishing language circles in school level and implementing programmes via them .
islandwide awareness programme for general publicprinted media advertisements .
social integration week .
awareness programme for government officers .
national institute of language education and training and its performance .
national institute of language education and training .
introduction .
national institute of language education and training was established under the provision of the national institute of language education and training act no 26 of 2007 as a statutory body under the ministry of national languages and social integration with the objective of implementing the trilingual policy of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka .
from 1st of november 2007  this institute has been functioning being affiliated to the ministry of constitutional affairs and national integration at no310  galle road  colombo 3 .
with effect from 25th of april 2010  this ministry was renamed as the ministry of national languages and social integration and functioned under the ministry concerned .
with effect from 18th of january 2015  the institute had been functioning under the ministry of public administration  provincial councils and democratic governance .
with effect from 21st september 2015 the institute has been functioning under the ministry of national coexistence  dialogues and official languages .
at present  this institute is  functioning at no40  buthgamuwa road  rajagiriya .
at present  this institution  has expanded its scope  implements a number of training courses island wide .
of them the following are the key programmes .
parttime second languages courses for public officerslevel ilevel iilevel iii .
12–day shortterm nonresidential training courses for public officers .
teacher training courses .
feedback and monitoring programmes for resource persons .
diploma courses on translation studies parttimefull time .
basic courses on translation residential 10 days .
spoken sinhalatamil language training courses under language circles national  programme .
short term second languages training courses for newly recruited government officersdoctors  administrative officers and other professionals .
several courses organized by the institute are held at the training center located at galewatta in agalawatta .
the training center  which is situated in an attractive location  consists of a lecture hall with room  for about 250 trainees at a time  group discussion facilities for residential training for about 60 persons  and a library .
while the service of a pool of expert resource persons is obtained in conducting the above island wide programmes  the staff of the institute has been working with a sense of dedication .
vision .
enhancing peace and coexistence among the people of sri lanka through training of national languages .
mission .
functioning as the strategic centre for providing trilingual knowledge for language education and training with  the purpose of implementing the official language policy .
objectives .
generating knowledgeable  translators and interpreters of sinhala  tamil and english languages to be recruited in the national translators  and interpreters  service established by  written law .
generating suitable and skilful teachers to train teachers of sinhala  tamil and english translators and interpreters .
generating public officers well versed in three languages to render an efficient  service to the general public .
functions of the institution .
providing continuous  training in the three languages to those persons who wish to acquire such knowledge to be able to teach sinhala  tamil and english languages .
conducting research and studies on issues about language training with the objective of utilising the results of studies and researches to conduct the activities of the institution effeciently .
providing language training and education to suitable persons and awarding certificates and diplomas to those who successfully complete such language training and education .
establishing a board of trained  personnel to continue language studies .
setting up of a depository of details related to languages .
conducting special language training courses in sinhala tamil and english languages for persons belonging to special categories such as interpreters  translators and stenographers .
various training courses conducted by the national institute of language education and training in the year 2015 .
61 parttime training courses for public officers .
in order to empower the public officers in the two official languages  island wide parttime language training programmes are implemented by the national institute of language education and training .
these programmes are organized at service stations level and conducted in such government institutions as government departments  divisional secretariats and police stations covering a duration of 4 to 6 hours per week  without causing disturbance to official duties of the participants .
while these sinhala and tamil training programmes are divided into four categories as level i  ii iii and level iv the time durations of them are 250 hours 200 hours 150 hours and 100 hours respectively .
the objective of this programme is to improve the efficiency of the public service by enhancing the public officers second language proficiency and facilitate the effective implementation of official language policy .
the details of the parttime language training programmes conducted for public officers in the year 2015 are as follows .
classes approved for 2015 .
leve l .
leve l1 .
leve l1 .
level iii .
level iii .
total .
accordingly  arrangements were made to provide training for around 5456 public officers through 186 classes by the institute in the year 2015 .
level l .
level l .
level l1 .
level l1 .
level iii .
level iii .
total .
62 12 day nonresidential tamil language training courses for public officers .
12day short term language training courses are to be organized by the national institute of language education and training for public officers who are unable to attend the parttime language training programmes .
this 12day short term language training programme can be identified as a unique effort of the institute to cultivate humane and procoexistence feelings in public officers and thereby to bring about cultural and social integration .
the officers participating in the classes should continuously attend the classes for 12 days and on completion of the course  certificates are awarded based on the result of a written and oral test .
the details of the 12day non residential language training programmes conducted for public officers are as follows .
health	medical officers training center  kopay .
june 1021 .
university of vavuniya .
june 1122 .
management development centre .
june 1122 .
sabaragamuwa provincial centre .
june 1627 .
screed heart college  rajagiriya .
july 1627 .
divisional secretariat kelaniya .
july 21aug 01 .
divisional secretariat tangalla .
sep 11 22 .
sabaragamuwa provincial centre .
oct 1526 .
sirihandha college  rajagiriya .
oct 21 nov 01 .
divisional secretariat batticaloa .
oct 23 nov 03 .
divisional	secretariat nochchiyagam .
oct 23 nov 03 .
divisional	secretariat bamunakotuwa .
nov 0819 .
divisional	secretariat galgamuwa .
nov 0819 .
sabaragamuwa provincial centre .
nov 920 .
divisional secretariat thihagoda .
nov 09 20 .
gamunu	regiment school  diyatalawa .
nov 11  21 .
divisional secretariat kalutara .
nov 1425 .
divisional secretariat uhana .
nov 1627 .
divisional secretariat ambalantota .
nov 1627 .
district secretariat monaragala .
nov 1627 .
district secretariat trincomalee .
nov 1829 .
divisional	secretariat devinuwara .
nov 21dec 02 .
divisional secretariat okwala .
nov 23dec 04 .
divisional	secretariat hambantota .
nov 25 dec 06 .
divisional	secretariat yatinuwara .
nov 26 dec 07 .
divisional secretariat badalkumbura .
dec 01 11 .
divisional	secretariat rajanganaya .
dec 0617 .
divisional	secretariat meerigama .
dec 07  17 .
divisional	secretariat thanamalwila .
dec 08 19 .
divisional secretariat thissamaharama .
dec 0819 .
divisional	secretariat seethawaka .
nov 26 dec 11 .
daham medura ampara .
dec 0213 .
63 teacher training programmes .
only those who participate in the 5day residential teacher training programmes conducted by the institute and get through the relevant test  are eligible to teach in the island wide teacher training programmes conducted by the institute .
while these teachers employ the  heartlyfused teaching learning process in teaching  institution conducts provincial level review and supervisory training study courses meant for them .
the objectives of these programmes are to teach the second language to the public officers for the purpose of implementation of the official language policy and to produce a pool of teachers capable of providing knowledge to the general public to acquire language proficiency through the national movement of language associations .
in 2015  02 teacher training programmes were conducted as income generating programmes and 68 teachers have been trained under the programme .
64progress review and supervision training programmes for teachers .
agalawattta	training centre .
feb 12  13 .
92 no of groups 02 .
agalawattta	training centre .
march 08 09 .
86 no of groups 02 .
agalawattta	training centre .
march 18 20 .
agalawattta training cente .
june 29 30 .
agalawattta training centre .
september 29 30 .
86 no of groups 2 .
agalawattta training centre .
oct 10 11 .
92 no of groups 2 .
65planning and development of curriculums .
programme for preparation of the syllabus for step i and ii of the 60hour tamil language programmes intended for the national integration coordination officers recruited and a total of around 05 such programmes were conducted in 2015 .
agalawattta training centre .
feb 0608 .
agalawattta training centre .
april 03 04 .
agalawattta training centre .
june 0105 .
agalawattta training centre .
aug 22 23 .
office in colombo .
1st week of october onwards .
66language training programme for civil society .
150hour sinhalatamil language training programme .
a language training programme for civil society was initiated in 2012 .
the 150hour course consisting of 100 hours of oral and 50 hours of written training these programmes were  conducted island wide .
the objective of the porgramme was to enhance the social integration through providing the general public with sinhala and tamil language knowledge .
details of the classes conducted for language associations in 2015 are as follows .
classes for which approval was given in 2015 .
accordingly  the steps were taken by the institute to give approval for conducting 296 classes for training 8880 participants .
classes commenced in 2015 .
accordingly 144 classes were commenced in 2015 for 5598 participants .
classes completed as at 31122015 .
sinhala .
tamil .
total .
classes commenced in 2015 and not duly completed .
sinhala .
tamil .
total .
according to the above table only 04 classes were not held in 2015 .
67 12day non residential sinhalatamil language training programmes conducted under the language associations national movement for students who have completed the al examination .
in 2015  islandwide programmes were conducted by the institute for students who had completed gce al examination .
accordingly  around 2232 participants were trained under the programme through about 30 language training programmes covering the entire island .
nuwaraeliya .
ambagamuwa disrict secatariat .
tamil .
ratnapura .
sabaragamuwa provincial center .
tamil .
kegalle .
wendala temple  karawanella .
tamil .
kalutara .
welipenna sanasa society .
tamil .
kalutara .
social care institute beruwala .
sinhala .
galle .
haburugala community center .
tamil .
mullaitivu .
secretariat mullativu .
sinhala .
jaffana .
nelli adi central college .
sinhala .
jaffna .
kokkuwil hindu college .
sinhala .
mannar .
english training center .
sinhala .
killinochchi .
district secretariat killinochchi .
sinhala .
vavuniya .
gamini vidyalaya .
sinhala .
gampaha .
kaleliya adarsha kanishta vidyalaya .
tamil .
colombo .
navinna annonyadhara samithi hall  maharagama .
tamil .
hambantota .
girihada raja maha viharaya  ambalantota .
tamil .
matara .
divisional secretariat .
tamil .
kandy .
sri wishudharamaya  gampola .
tamil .
badulla .
sri uththararamaya  passara .
tamil .
putttalam .
divisional secretariat  mahawewa .
tamil .
monaragala .
bakinigahawela muslim maha vidyalaya .
sinhala .
monaragala .
youth service center monaragala .
tamil .
monaragala .
divisional secretariat  monaragala .
tamil .
kurunegala .
divisional secretariat  mallawapitiya .
tamil .
matale .
urban council hall .
tamil .
ampara .
divisional secretariat  karativu .
sinhala .
ampara .
divisional secretariat  ampara .
tamil .
batticaloa .
divisional secretariat  batticaloa .
sinhala .
anuradhapura .
divisional secretariat  palagala .
tamil .
polonnaruwa .
divisional secretariat  elahera .
kalutara .
kamburawala maha vidyalaya .
68residential tamil language training programme for national integration promotion officers .
a 60day tamil language training programmeis conducted by the institute for the newly recruited national integration promotion officers .
this programme is conducted for 06 months at the rate of 10 hours per month at the agalawatta training centre .
the objective of the programme is enhancing the efficiency of the public service by improving the second language competency of the public officers .
agalawattta training centre .
july 17  26 .
agalawattta training centre .
aug 24  sep 03 .
agalawattta training  centre .
nov 05  14 .
agalawattta training centre .
nov 23  dec 4 .
agalawattta training centre .
dec 4 15 .
69 training and skills development programmes for the staff of the institute .
divers programmes are conducted by the national institute of language education and training to develop the skills of  its staff .
while officers are sent to other institutions in order to provide them with opportunities for training  a programme was implemented including all the officers of the staff .
this programme provides the staff with the career guidance and assistance necessary for personality development .
610 fee levying study courses .
tamil language training programme for doctors .
in compliance with a request made by the department of health a 11day residential second language training programme was conducted for the medical doctors engaged in internship training .
while the objective of this programme is to deliver an efficient and a cordial service to the general public  the total cost of this programme was  borne by the ministry of health .
during 2015  07 programmes of this nature were planned to be conducted .
agalawatta training centre .
feb 20 march 02 .
agalawatta training centre .
may 26  june 05 .
agalawatta training center .
june 16 27 .
agalawatta training centre .
july 4 14 .
agalawatta training centre .
aug 4 14 .
agalawatta training center .
sep 4 14 .
agalawatta training centre .
sep 15  25 .
02 shortterm training programmes for governmentsemigovernment institutions .
08 shortterm training programmes for governmentsemigovernment institutions were planned to be conducted in the year 2015 .
while the costs of these programmes are borne by the respective institutions the objective of this programme is to deliver a more efficient service to the general public by providing the public officers with the language training .
in 2015  08 programmes of this nature were conducted for army officers .
tamil .
jaffna .
april 27  may 8 .
mullaitivu .
april 27may 8 .
vavuniya .
april 27may 8 .
killinochchi .
april 27may 8 .
kandy .
november 514 .
hambantota .
november 514 .
panagoda .
november 514 .
welikanda .
november 514 .
total .
summary of the programmes conducted in 2015 .
1 parttime training programmes conducted for public officers .
level i .
level ii .
level iii .
total .
language training programmes for the general public .
sinhala .
tamil .
total .
12day nonresidential language training programmes for public officers .
no of programmes .
progress review programmes for teachers .
language training programmes for doctors .
language training programme for national integration coordination officers .
teacher training programmes on sinhalatamil languages .
language training programmes for army officers .
language training programme for nurses .
communication skills development programme .
awareness programmes .
language training programmes students who have completed  gceal examination .
planning and development of curriculums .
03 sessions  on planning of curriculums .
performance as per the action plan .
financial progress of national institute of language education and training .
estimated cost .
actual expenditure .
parttime training programmes conducted for public officers .
12day nonresidential language training programmes for public officers .
progress review and monitoring programmes for teachers .
training programmes for the staff of the institute .
10day tamil language training programme for the national integration coordination officers .
acquisition of capital assets .
communication skills development programme .
planning and development of curriculums .
training programmes for army officers .
awareness programmes .
programmes conducted for doctors .
17 day non residential tamil language training programme for newly recruited nurses .
150 hour sinhalatamil language training programme for the general public .
14 12day nonresidential sinhalatamil language training programmes for students who have completed al examination was conducted under the language associations national movement .
total .
07 national secretariat for nongovernmental organizations .
introduction .
mission .
coordinating the resources and the activities of ngo’s within the national policy framework and make them contribute as partners towards the process of development of the country .
objectives .
ensuring that resources mobilized from legally recognized ngos are used in the interest of the people within the framework of law and policy .
creating a conducive environment for national and international communities civil societies to contribute towards developmental activities voluntarily for the betterment of affected parties .
strategy .
accepting the ngos as responsive service providers to beneficiaries with the intervention and supervision of the government .
main divisions of the ngo secretariat .
all functions of the secretariat for ngos have been organized under the following divisions in order to achieve the above objectives .
1 division of registration of ngos and investigation .
2 division of monitoring and supervision .
3 facilitation and service providing division .
4 administration division .
08 foreign funded projects under the ministry .
081 facilitation for social cohesion and transformation projects .
introduction .
facilitating initiatives for social cohesion and transformation project is implemented by the development assistant institute of germany on behalf of the german federal ministry for economic cooperation and development in collaboration with the ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages in sri lanka .
the ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages functions as the sri lankan partner of the project .
facilitating initiatives for social cohesion and transformation project assists the government of sri lanka by supporting the development and implementation of a policy framework for social integration and inclusive citizen participation among state and civil society activists .
at the national level facilitation project on social transformation and integration works with the ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages and the ministry of local government and provincial councils for social transformation and integration projects .
at the local level facilitation project on social transformation and integration conducts its activities in 5 pilot districts namely ampara  badulla  galle  mullaitivu and puttlam in collaboration with the provincial councils  district secretariats  divisional secretariats and pradeshiya sabha offices and selected communitybased organizations .
the new and the final phase of facilitation project on social transformation and integration which was to be completed in mid march 2017  commenced  in january 2014 .
the objective of this phase is to collaborate with “government and nongovernmental agencies and build social integration by building key elements for social integration .
the results to be achieved by the above steps .
enhancing the knowledge on social integration .
developing the skills of government and nongovernment agencies  engaged in social integration .
filing new trends and spreading them all over the country to promote social cohesion based on regional needs .
facilitation project on social transformation and integration  functions  under four basic sectors in order to achieve the above results .
implementation of the national policy mechanism in relation to social integration at national and district level .
implementation of the national policy mechanism at local government and community level .
promoting social integration through  arts and culture .
promoting social integration through education and innovation .
82 strengthening enforcement of law  access to justice and social integration .
introduction .
the project for enforcement of law  access to justice and social integration was initiated based on the experience gathered from i and ii phases of equal access to justice project .
facilitating relevant locallevel processes and mechanisms aimed at improving service delivery systems  particularly in the areas of legal aid  prison administration and access to documentation are done by this  project on equal access to justice .
this project has established a casual level mechanism to create a connected approach and thereby access justiceoriented institutions .
based on these positive results  the program for strengthening law enforcement  equitable access to justice and social cohesion has been built by structuring and improving some of these coordinating units  leading to more radical reforms in justice .
by strengthening the institutional capabilities of planning in the relevant field  the programs focus on the recommendations of the lessons learned and reconciliation commission as well as the government s ability to implement the national policy framework for social integration .
this programme is implemented nationally  by the ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages and  ministry of justice  ministry of child development and women’s affairs .
821 based on the facts transpired on the evaluation of documentation needs conducted in 2013  conducting mobile services on documentation in plantation sector .
mobile services were conducted in the ds divisions of ayagama  palmadulla and kiri ella in ratnapura district  hangurankethe and walapone in n’eliya district and hali ella in badulla district .
nearly 3000 legal documents including birth certificates  marriage certificates  death certificates  police reports were issued to beneficiaries in this mobile service .
822 providing necessary assistance to determine the linguistic gaps in the selected multiethnic hierarchical geographical locations and key service  providing sectors .
determining the linguistic gaps targeting police  local government authorities and hospitals in 54 bilingual ds division is expected to be commenced .
while center for policy alternatives is contracted to implement this activity  preparation of questionnaires  instructions and training of enumerators for the pilot survey have been  completed .
relevant data collection for the survey  will take place in january 2016 .
823 providing necessary assistance for the ministry of education in relation to the teacher exchange programme senehasaka thaksalawa .
the first programme of  the “senehasakla thaksalawa” programmes  was conducted for eighty 80 teachers belonging to in five05 educational  zones in anuradhapura .
824 procurement of equipment for language labs of department of official languages and national institute of language education and training .
equipment were provided to two language labs located at department of official languages and national institute of language education and training as well .
825 participating in community activities to promote social cohesion and to maintain a sustainable coordination with empowered women leaders  through meetings and lectures at district level based on needs .
followup programmes were organized in killinochchi and monaragala districts in collaboration  with the trained women leaders and the si officers based in the respective ga offices .
an awareness programme on underage marriages had been organized  by women leaders in killinochchi .
entrepreneurship training programme on sewing for women in selected ds divisions was conducted .
826 promoting social integration through volunteerism .
the objectives of the selected volunteers are assisting people of respective districtdivisional secratarits  assisting the staff to implement their day to day duties efficiently and also assiting to find remedial measures to overcome barriers in people obtaining the services in the language of  their choice .
of the 354 applications received in this regard  240 volunteers were selected and they took part in the relevant orientation programme .
827 programme on representation of younger society in bringing about change in the process of social integration .
whilst preparing a  documentary on how could the volunteers direct their contributions towards avoiding the linguistic gap is a part of this programme  the department of official languages has already completed preparing the script of the documentary .
british council has been selected by the undp to implement the programme on youth are the representatives of bringing about changes in social integration and transformation .
a whilst this project provides the necessary technical input  it also shares experience and lessons learnt from similar previous programmes .
b the first programme of it  was conducted  for 40 participants at sarvodaya batticaloa .
828 programme on young journalists as changing agents of  social integration .
the programme on “media dialogue to promote coexistence” was conducted with the collaboration of  the ministry of mass media and sri lanka media training institute .
the programme was conducted in negombo for 59 journalists attached to printelectronicsocialweb media of private and state sectors .
829 prevention of drug addiction  formation of “awareness groups” as change agents at community level to alert youth on drugs .
programme on prevention of drugs was held  in killinochchi in which  59 youths participated .
women leaders  trained by the empowerment of women programme conducted in 2014  initiated this programme with the assistance of social integration officers of provincial office in killinochchi .
09 monetary allocations .
financial progress up to 20151231 .
head  ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages .
programmeoperational activities .
project number and name ministry office .
as at 20151231 .
recurrent expenditure .
personnel emoluments .
travelling expenses .
supplies .
maintenance expenditure .
services .
capital expenditure .
rehabilitation of capital assets .
acquisition of capital assets .
total .
head  ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages .
programme01 operational activities .
project number and name 02 administration and establishment services .
as at 20151231 .
recurrent expenditure .
personnel emoluments .
travelling expenses .
supplies .
maintenance expenditure .
services .
transfers .
capital expenditure .
rehabilitation and uplifting of capital assets .
acquisition of capital assets .
capacity building .
transfers .
total .
head 01 ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official languages .
programme  01 operational activities .
project number and name 03 .
administration and establishment services as at 31122015 .
recurrent expenditure .
personnel emoluments .
travelling expenses .
supplies .
maintenance expenditure .
services .
transfers .
capital expenditure .
rehabilitation and uplifting of capital assets .
acquisition	of capital assets .
capacity building .
investments .
total .
10 advance accounts .
advance account actual amount against the prescribed limits .
operation of the advance account as at 31122015 is as follows .
11review .
it is with great pleasure that i declare that the officers of the ministry have worked with utmost dedication to fulfil the aspirations of the ministry as a whole .
the support extended by the staff of the ministry the institutions affiliated to the ministry and the project officers are also appreciated .
secretary .
ministry of national coexistence  dialogue and official language .
home .
news and events .
events calendar .
see by year .
see by month .
see by week .
see today .
search .
jump to month .
january .
february .
march .
april .
may .
june .
july .
august .
september .
october .
november .
december .
jump to month .
tuesday  01 august 2017 .
friday  11 august 2017 .
saturday  12 august 2017 .
sunday  13 august 2017 .
monday  14 august 2017 .
tuesday  15 august 2017 .
wednesday  16 august 2017 .
thursday  17 august 2017 .
friday  18 august 2017 .
saturday  19 august 2017 .
sunday  20 august 2017 .
monday  21 august 2017 .
tuesday  22 august 2017 .
wednesday  23 august 2017 .
thursday  24 august 2017 .
friday  25 august 2017 .
saturday  26 august 2017 .
sunday  27 august 2017 .
monday  28 august 2017 .
tuesday  29 august 2017 .
wednesday  30 august 2017 .
thursday  31 august 2017 .
home .
branches .
branches .
filter .
go .
reset .
choose a city .
assistant commissioner of excise .
address .
office of the assistant commissioner of excise .
city .
kurunegala .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
kurunegala .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
kuliyapitiya .
phone .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the superintendent of excise .
city .
chilaw .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
chilaw .
phone .
start .
prev .
next .
end .
get directions .
from .
choose source .
department of excise .
or .
to .
choose destination .
department of excise .
assistant commissioner of excise .
officer in charge of excise .
superintended of excise .
or .
home .
branches .
branches .
filter .
go .
reset .
choose a city .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
mirigama .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
address .
city .
meegoda .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the superintendent of excise .
city .
gampaha .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
gampaha .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
negombo .
phone .
start .
prev .
next .
end .
get directions .
home .
branches .
branches .
filter .
go .
reset .
choose a city .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
jaela .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
kirindiwela .
assistant commissioner of excise .
address .
office of the commissioner of excise .
western province 2 .
city .
kalutara .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
aluthgama .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
matugama .
phone .
start .
prev .
next .
end .
get directions .
home .
branches .
branches .
filter .
go .
reset .
choose a city .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
panadura .
phone .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the superintendent of excise .
city .
aluthgama .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
horana .
phone .
assistant commissioner of excise .
address .
office of the assistant commissioner of excise .
city .
kandy .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
kandy .
phone .
start .
prev .
next .
end .
get directions .
home .
branches .
branches .
filter .
go .
reset .
choose a city .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
mahawa .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
gampola .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
matale .
phone .
phone .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the superintendent of excise .
city .
nuwara  eliya .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
nuwara  eliya .
phone .
start .
prev .
next .
end .
get directions .
home .
branches .
branches .
filter .
go .
reset .
choose a city .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
ampara .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
kalmunai .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
nuwara  eliya .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
hatton .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
elpitiya .
start .
prev .
next .
end .
get directions .
home .
branches .
branches .
filter .
go .
reset .
choose a city .
assistant commissioner of excise .
address .
office of the assistant commissioner of excise .
city .
galle .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
galle .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
matara .
phone .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the superintendent of excise .
city .
hambantota .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
tangalla .
phone .
start .
prev .
next .
end .
get directions .
home .
branches .
branches .
filter .
go .
reset .
choose a city .
assistant commissioner of excise .
address .
office of the assistant commissioner of excise .
city .
jaffna .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
jaffna .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
chankanai .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
address .
sri jayawardana pura .
city .
battaramulla .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
point  pedro .
start .
prev .
next .
end .
get directions .
home .
branches .
branches .
filter .
go .
reset .
choose a city .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
mannar .
phone .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the superintendent of excise .
city .
vauniya .
phone .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the superintendent of excise .
city .
batticaloa .
phone .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
batticaloa .
phone .
assistant commissioner of excise .
address .
office of the assistant commissioner of excise .
city .
trincomalee .
phone .
start .
prev .
next .
end .
get directions .
home .
downloads .
annual reports .
annual reports .
annual report 2005 .
annual report 2006 .
annual report 2007 .
annual report 2008 .
annual report 2009 .
annual report 2010 .
annual report 2011 .
annual report 2012 .
annual report 2013 .
annual report 2014 .
annual report 2015 .
home .
downloads .
application formats .
application formats .
specimen application form for issue of liquor license .
home .
news and events .
events calendar .
see by year .
see by month .
see by week .
see today .
search .
jump to month .
january .
february .
march .
april .
may .
june .
july .
august .
september .
october .
november .
december .
jump to month .
16 august 2017 .
sunday .
monday .
tuesday .
wednesday .
thursday .
friday .
saturday .
home .
branches .
branches .
filter .
go .
reset .
choose a city .
department of excise .
phone .
phone .
fax .
web site .
httpwwwexcisegovlk .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the supdtof excise narcotic .
address .
drwijewardana mawatha .
city .
colombo 10 .
phone .
assistant commissioner of excise .
address .
office of the commissioner of excise .
address .
drwijewardana mawatha .
city .
colombo 10 .
phone .
942329329 .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
padukka .
phone .
942750118 .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
kesbewa .
phone .
942704260 .
start .
prev .
next .
end .
get directions .
home .
about us .
cadre .
approved cadre .
our staff as at 30112009 .
position .
number .
commissioner general of excise – slas .
commissioner of excise – revenue – slas .
commissioner of excise – administration and human resources – slas .
commissioner of excise – finance – slas .
deputy commissioner of excise administration – slas .
deputy commissioner of excise finance .
deputy commissioner of excise internal audit  – slacs .
assistant commissioner of excise  departmental .
superintendent of excise .
administrative officer .
officer in charge .
inspector .
government management assistant .
budget assistant .
sergeant major .
sergeant .
guard  corporal .
driver grade 11 .
grade 1 .
circuit bungalow caretaker .
home .
department of excise sri lanka .
applying for annual training courses .
email .
telephone number .
name .
designation .
appoint date .
working place .
first appoinment date and designation .
applying courses .
ordered by preference .
dates .
i request to be selected to any one of the courses mentioned above .
i certify that i will attend continuously to the selected course and that i do not have any judiciary or obligatory duties during those days .
if i am unable to participate the selected course without an accepted medical certificate i agree to the course fees being deducted from my salary .
if the image is not clear click on it for a new image .
verification code .
home .
complaints .
complaint form .
department of excise .
province .
select province .
central .
eastern .
north central .
north western .
northern .
sabaragamuwa .
southern .
uva .
western .
district .
select district .
ds division .
select ds division .
offence .
select offence .
unlawfully distill spirits .
unlawfully sale of spirits .
unlawfully sale of arrack .
unlawfully sale of liquor .
unlawfully position of distilled spirits over than 4 ltrs .
unlawfully position of distilled spirits less than 04 ltrs .
unlawfully bottling of liquorarrack .
unlawfully position of heroin .
unlawfully sale and position of heroin .
unlawfully sale of heroin .
unlawfully sale of cannabis .
unlawfully sale and position of cannabis .
other offences .
your email .
complaint .
verification code .
home .
contacts .
contact details .
contact details .
excise department of sri lanka .
telephone .
94112300166 .
94112300171 .
94113888023 .
fax .
94112877890 .
email .
excisensltlk .
commissioner general of excise .
name .
a bodaragama .
telephone .
fax .
commissioners of excise .
home .
branches .
branches .
filter .
go .
reset .
choose a city .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the superintendent of excise .
city .
matale .
phone .
94066 2233542 .
officer in charge of excise .
address .
excise station .
city .
wellawaya .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the superintendent of excise .
city .
monaragala .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the superintendent of excise .
city .
jaela .
superintended of excise .
address .
office of the superintendent of excise .
city .
point  pedro .
start .
prev .
next .
end .
get directions .
home .
media gallery .
photo gallery .
photo gallery .
home .
license details .
types of licenses .
types of liquor licenses .
licenses category .
license to manufacture malt liquor .
license to manufacture foreign spirits locally .
license to manufacture  milk punch and or wine .
license to manufacture country made foreign spirits from spirits distilled from the coconut or any of its products other than toddy .
wholesale license .
retail license .
beer and porter license .
hotel license .
hotel bar license .
entertainment bar license .
railway refreshment room license .
restaurant license .
rest house license .
club license .
occasional license .
supplementary licenses to extend the hours of sale .
auctioneer’s license .
rectified spirits license .
medicated wine license .
special license .
beer  ale  stout wine license for retail sale .
beer  ale  stout wine license for consumption in the  premises .
manufacturing licenses .
license to tap  draw and manufacture fermented  unfermented sweet toddy .
home .
downloads .
notifications .
notifications .
excise notification no 902 .
closing dates of the liquer shops .
home .
about us .
organization structure .
organizational structure of the department of excise .
click on the image to view complete organization structure in a new window .
home .
about us .
overview .
vision .
building of a healthy society in sri lanka  which is free from illicit liquor and narcotics drugs .
mission .
the mission of the department of excise has been broadly identified as the efficient and effective administration of the liquor and the tobacco industry in sri lanka through the collection of revenue and prevention of illicit manufacture and sale of such products  for development and welfare of the society  and the enforcement of the poisons  opium  and dangerous drugs ordinance for the social protection of sri lanka .
objectives .
the collection and protection of revenue from liquor and tobacco .
the enforcement of the excise ordinance and the tobacco tax act .
the enforcement of the poisons  opium and dangerous drugs ordinance .
home .
site map .
site map .
home .
about us .
overview .
functions of the department .
special units .
organization structure .
cadre .
branches .
license details .
media gallery .
photo gallery .
video gallery .
training .
downloads .
circulars .
annual reports .
notifications .
application formats .
contacts .
contact details .
news  events .
faqs .
complaints .
site map .
home .
training .
new training programs .
list of new training programs conducted by department of excise for the year 2010 .
click here to apply online .
list of new training programs conducted by slida .
to download slida training application form .
click here .
p s no 2014317  third instalment  part iv  funds  report of the auditor general 2012 .
customs overtime and cargo examination fees fund  2012 .
1 financial statements .
11 qualified audit opinion .
in my opinion  except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 12 of this report  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the customs overtime and cargo examination fees fund as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles .
12 comments on financial statements .
121 presentation of financial statements .
122 unidentified transactions .
this had been continuously pointed out in the audit reports for the years 2008 to 2011 .
though the director general of customs stated that action will be taken to rectify that in the subsequent year  no action had been taken even during the year 2012 to settle the matter .
123 accounts receivable .
the following observations are made .
adequate provisions for bad debts had not been made for those balances uncertain of recovery .
a formal course of action had not been taken even during the year under review for the recovery of the money from the debtors existing for more than 07 years .
similarly  action had not been taken to ascertain the existence of certain institution shown as debtors .
attention had not been paid to the possibility of identifying and settling those balances .
c security deposits had not been obtained in connection with certain debtors  balances .
124 special deposits and investments .
the following observations are made in this connection .
a the documentary information in support of the purpose of obtaining the deposits had not been furnished to audit .
b action had not been taken to find out the existence of the depositor of institutions and those deposits had not been confirmed as refundable deposits .
c as this money had been invested in saving accounts over a long period a very low interest had been earned and attention had not been paid to deploy the money in other suitable investments .
125 lack of evidence for audit .
evidence indicated against the following items had not been furnished to audit .
item .
amount .
rs .
evidence not made available .
a sundry debtors .
confirmation of balances relating to outstanding debts of 158 institutions .
b eight items of accounts .
confirmation of balances .
126 noncompliance with laws  rules  regulations and management decisions .
the following noncompliances were observed .
reference to laws  rules  regulations and management decision .
noncompliance .
a financial regulations .
b public administration circular no 92009 of 16 april 2009 and the sri lanka customs circular no 012010 of 19 february 2010 .
even though the punch card machines had been introduced by sri lanka customs  none of the officers of sri lanka customs had used the punch card machine during the year under review and no action whatsoever had been taken in that connection .
127 transactions not supported by authority .
internal regulations had been improperly made for enabling the customs officers to obtain overtime allowance exceeding 600 hours per month at 12 to 27 hours per day and the formal approval obtained for that had not been furnished to audit .
2 financial review .
21 financial results .
this deterioration had been mainly due to the decrease of the income of the fund by 27 percent and the increase of the expenditure by 24 percent as compared with the preceding year .
3 operating review .
31 performance .
a overtime fund .
the money collected as overtime from the external clearance centres and the other institutions to defray the expenditure incurred in the performance of duties during the time in addition to the normal duty times of the customs officers and for the performance of duties on the dates in which the customs is closed for duties is credited to this fund and the payments made to the customs staff for such overtime service performed are considered as the expenditure of the fund .
an analysis of the financial results of the overtime fund for the year ended 31 december 2012 and the 09 preceding years is given below .
year .
income .
expenditure .
surplus .
improvement deterioration in the financial results as compared with preceding year as a percentage .
surplus as a percentage of the income .
the following observation is made in this connection .
b customs cargo examination fees fund .
out of the examination fees recovered from the parties who clear the goods for the deployment of customs officers outside the normal places of work on examination duty  50 percent is credited to the customs cargo examination fees fund and that money is utilized for the payment of allowances .
32 transactions of contentious nature .
the following observations are made .
a the contentious nature of the overtime payment process of sri lanka customs was continuously pointed out in the previous years  audit reports and overtime had been paid in an unrealistic manner even during the year under review .
an audit check relating to 06 officers of the export division for the three months from january to march 2012 revealed that each officer had been on overtime duty in the ranges of 600 hours to 663 hours in each of the three months .
further  the average overtime duty of these officers per day had exceeded 20 hours .
b those officers had been paid cargo examination fees in an unusual manner in respect of the same period for which the above overtime had been paid .
c even though requests were made to produce the documents to audit in support of the payment of cargo examination fees relating to the bonds and baggage division during february to april 2012  such information was not produced even up to october 2013 .
it was reported that the information relating to the exports division for the years 2008 and 2009 had been deleted from the computer  but such information for the year 2010 and 2011 had not been also produced to audit .
d the above overtime and cargo examination fees had been paid in addition to the monthly salaries  incentives  and rewards paid to the officers .
the overtime earnings of most officers had exceeded their consolidated salaries .
payments were made for many officers on the basis on being on duty throughout the year without obtaining leave  which is an unrealistic .
e even though the outdated regulations on overtime and external examination fees should be amended to rectify the above situations  no action whatsoever had been taken in that connection .
33 management inefficiencies .
the following observation is made .
the unutilized money of the fund had been brought forward from year to year as treasury deposits .
the balances of the deposit account and the balance of the fund indicated improvement as shown below .
it was observed that necessary steps had not been taken by discussing the matter with the treasury .
year .
overtime fund .
cargo examination fees fund .
balance of the treasury deposit account .
4 accountability and good governance .
budgetary control .
it was observed that the budget had not been used as an effective management control  as the budget revealed quantitative variances between income and expenditure  and actual revenue and expenditure .
5 systems and controls‍ .
deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the director general of customs from time to time .
special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control .
a arrears of income .
b overtime payments .
c accounting .
d container examinations .
e staff administration .
name             mr alm cassim .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  akkaraipattu .
name             mr k rizwi yahzar .
designation      accountant .
akkaraipattu zone .
name             mr ss rathnayake .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  akuressa .
name             mrkajith thushara .
designation      accountant .
akuressa zone .
name             mr dm abeyrathne .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  anuradhapura .
name ms amp nilanthi .
anuradhapura zone .
namemrpgariyapala .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  balangoda .
name             mr hvs vikirawita .
designation      additional zonal director of education .
name             mr mds fernando .
balangoda zone .
name            mrrmananda .
official address .
zonal education office haliela badulla .
namemrarwmskamarakoon .
badulla zone .
name mrs s chakkarawarthy .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  batticaloa .
name mrs v ganeshamoorthy .
batticaloa zone .
name             mr wm jayantha wickramanayake .
official address .
zonal education office  vithanage mw  colombo02 .
name mr j nanayakkara .
name mrs rms wasantha .
colombo zone .
name             mrs wmcweerakoon .
official address zonal education office  denuwara .
name             mrsgltsliyanage .
denuwara zone .
name             mr nmkb nawarathne .
official address zonal education office  dimbulagala .
name             mr hbsk gunawardhana .
dimbulagala zone .
name             mr sk mallawaarachchi .
official address zonal education office  gampaha .
name             mrs kg sirima .
name             mrs labl gunasena .
gampaha zone .
name             mr ma wimalasena .
official address zonal education office  trincomalee north  morawewa .
name             mr lwnc pratheep .
gomarankadawala zone .
name             mrs ka chandrawathie .
official address .
zonal education office  horana .
name             mrs oc nilushani .
horana zone .
name             mr t jhon qwintus .
zonal education office  jaffna islands  velanai .
name             ms s kavitha .
islands zone .
name             mr n sirisena .
official address zonal education office  kegalle .
name             mrs pgrs madhavi welagedara .
name             mr addmr abeyrathne .
positioncheif accountant .
kegalle zone .
name             mrk mrukawel .
official address zonal education office  killinochchi .
name  mr rrks ganegoda .
kilinochchi zone .
name             mrs aj croos .
official address madhu zonal education office  andankulam  adampan .
name             mr aud premathilaka .
madhu zone .
name             mrs thandayuthapani .
designation      hon minister of education .
official address ministry of education  inner harbour road  trincomalee .
name             mrjsdm asanka abeywaedena .
designation      provincial secretary of education .
name             mr mta nisam .
designation      provincial director of education .
official address provincial department of education  eastern province  orr s hill  trincomalee .
name             mr smanoharan .
designation      additional provincial director of education .
name             mrsunil skarunathilaka .
designation      additional provincial director of education .
name             mravijayanantha moorthy .
designation      additional provincial director of education .
name             mrbketheswaran .
designation      cheif accountant .
eastern province .
name             mr vk jayarathne .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  galenbindunuwewa .
name             mr baa wijerathne .
galenbindunuwewa zone .
name             mr ggapremesiri .
official address zonal education office  gampola .
name             mr rhnnranasingha .
gampola zone .
name             mrpsridharan .
official address zonal education office  hatton .
name             mrsgatngodagedara .
hatton zone .
name             mr h kulasooriya .
official address zonal education office  ibbagamuwa .
name             mr hg abeyrathna .
ibbagamuwa zone .
name             mrs omvp mudalige .
official address zonal education office  kalutara .
name             mrs akp fernando .
kalutara zone .
name             mr bmsss basnayake .
official address zonal education office  kanthale .
name             mr lwnc paratheep .
kantale zone .
name             mr mmmziyan .
official address zonal education office  mannar .
name             mr ahms bandara .
mannar zone .
name             mr smam saddhamangala subasinghe .
official address zonal education office  puttalam .
name             mr rd solaman .
puttalam zone .
name             mrs lm weniton .
official address zonal education office  thunukkai  mallavi mmv  mallavi .
name             mr amrs athapattu .
thunukkai zone .
name             mrssanton somarajah .
official address zonal education office  vavuniya south  vavuniya .
name             ms r anantharani .
vavuniya south zone .
zonal education office  wellawaya .
name             mr ma rathnasiri .
name             mr dma senanayake .
wellawaya zone .
name             mr ns premachandra .
official address zonal education office  dehiattakandiya .
name             mr k fazeel .
dehiattakandiya zone .
name             mr ka susil premanath .
official address zonal education office  kalegana  galle .
name          mrkpkschandhima .
galle zone .
name             mr wr weerakoon .
official address zonal education office  hakmana .
name             mrs um shiriyani kulathunga .
mulatiyana hakmana zone .
name             mrwmwejerahna .
official address zonal education office  kandy .
name             mr ppcsj pathirage .
kandy zone .
name             mr jkva jayalath .
official address zonal education office  kekirawa .
name             mr jkmvk jayasinghe .
kekirawa zone .
name             mrs mts de silva .
official address zonal education office  kothmale .
name             mrs kmncgunarahna .
kotmale zone .
name             mr sa alagiyawanna .
official address zonal education office  kuliyapitiya .
name             ms smdk jayasinghe .
kuliyapitiya zone .
name             mr nw perera .
official address zonal education office  matugama .
name             mrs agsp wijerathne .
matugama zone .
name             mr ps nonis .
official address zonal education office  minuwangoda .
name             mr mc perera .
minuwangoda zone .
name             mr a vijayananthamoorthy .
official address zonal education office  muthur .
name             mr am roman .
mutur zone .
name             mr s krishnakumar .
official address zonal education office  chawakatchcheri .
name             mrssnanthakumar .
thennamaradchi zone .
name             mrsymcdyaparahna .
official address zonaleducation office  katugastota .
name            mrphrpkumara .
katugastota zone .
name             mr hemapala gunawardhana .
official address zonal education office  kebithigollewa .
name             mr baa wijerathne .
kebithigollewa zone .
name             mr wm piyasena .
official address zonal education office  passara .
name             mr wm deshabandu .
name             mr lds priyantha .
passara zone .
name             mr m siripala .
official address zonal education office  rathnapura .
name             mr klhemarathne .
name             mr dumindu maithree .
ratnapura zone .
name             mrs hwnk ekanayake .
official address zonal education office  sri jayawardhanapura .
name             mrs rpp abeykoon .
sri jayawardhanapura zone .
name             mr n vijendran .
official address zonal education office  trincomalee .
name             mrs g partheepan .
trincomalee zone .
name             mr npaa piyasoma .
official address zonal education office  udugama .
udugama zone .
name             mrs s rathnayake .
official address zonal education office  maho .
name             mrs wm soma wijekoon .
maho zone .
name             mrkgnmpbnawarathna .
official address zonal education office  teldeniya .
name             mrs inwejewardana .
teldeniya zone .
name             mr hb wijerathne .
official address zonal education office  thambuththegama .
name             mr wps wijesinghe .
thambuththegama zone .
name             mrs chandrarajah .
official address zonal education office  maruthanarmadam  chunnakam .
name             mrsp kuganeswary .
valikamam zone .
name             mr dmskarunarathna .
official address zonal education office  walapone .
name             mrsmpmdesanayaka .
walapone zone .
name            mrymrathnayake .
official addresszonal education office nikaweratiya .
name            mrnkbagnarasinghe .
nikaweratiya zone .
name             mr msa jaleel .
official address zonal education office  sammanthurai .
name             mr amf rafeek .
samanthurai zone .
name hon shan wijayalal de silva .
designation hon chief minister of southern province .
official address chief minister s office  upper dickson road  galle .
name hon chandima rasaputhra .
designation hon education minister of southern province .
official address education ministry of southern province  dakshinapaya  labudoova .
name mr ywikramasiri .
name mr jayathissa block .
designation provincial director of education sv .
official address department of education southern province upper dickson road  galle .
name mrs sy pathiranawasam .
designation additional provincial director of education development .
name mrka susil premanath .
designation additional provincial director of education control .
name mr mg nihal .
southern province .
name             mr r sugirtharajan .
official address zonal education office thirukkovil .
name             mr mk kentharamoorthy .
thirukkovil zone .
name             chamara sampath dasanayake .
designation      hon minister of provincial education .
official address chief minister s office  uva provincial council raja veediya  badulla .
name             mrs gamsp ambanwela .
official address ministry of education  uva provincial council  badulla .
name             mr rmp rathnayake .
designation      provincial director of education .
official address provincial department of education  welagedara road  badulla .
name             mr rm thilakarathne .
official address provincial department of education  welagedara rd  badulla .
uva province .
name             direct .
designation      extension .
name             mr na handunpathirana .
designation      assistant director of education .
name             mr waruna alahakone .
name             mrs ua samarakone .
name             mr uk mahipala .
name             branch .
name list of staff .
name             mr ss rathnayake .
official address zonal education office  akuressa .
name             mrkajith thushara .
akuressa zone .
name             mrs sp chandrawathie .
official address zonal education office  ambalangoda .
name            mrbpthisara .
ambalangoda zone .
name             mr n nanthakumar .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  vadamaradchi  point pedro .
name             mr r chandradas .
designation      accountant .
vadamaradchi zone .
name             mrs chandrarajah .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  maruthanarmadam  chunnakam .
name             mrsp kuganeswary .
valikamam zone .
name             mrs p ganeshalingam .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  vavuniya north  puliyankulam .
name             mr mpvn bandara .
vavuniya north zone .
name             mrssanton somarajah .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  vavuniya south  vavuniya .
name             ms r anantharani .
vavuniya south zone .
name             mr rw gamage .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  walasmulla .
name    mrs hknnadeeshani .
walasmulla zone .
name             mrmwwejerathna .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  wattegama .
name             mrsidkarunarahna .
designation      accountant .
wattegama zone .
name             mr im gunasekara .
designation      zonal director of education .
official address zonal education office  welimada .
name             mr dmnp dissanayake .
designation      accountant .
official address .
telephone number .
fax .
email .
welimada zone .
aesthetic education branch .
director of education .
aesthetic education branch 1st floor .
vision .
to hon minister of mass media and information .
we  the chairman and the members of the sri lanka rupavahini corporation present herewith the annual report for the year 2012  in accordance with section 14 1 of the finance act no 38 of 1971  along with the financial reports .
on behalf of the sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
chairman .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
independence square .
colombo 07 .
vision .
to be the flagship broadcaster of all sri lankans .
mission .
achieve excellence in creative content and dissemination of timely and valued  educational  entertaining and informative programmes through dedicated team work and stateoftheart technology to exceed the expectation of sri lankans everywhere .
aims .
to produce informative  educational and entertaining programmes while maintaining the highest standards and creativity .
to attract maximum number of viewers through excellent transmission .
to achieve financial stability and growth to run as a commercially viable autonomous state enterprise .
to protect the national identity of sri lankans the world over .
contents .
message from the chairman .
board of directors .
senior management .
directors .
award winning achievements .
programmes division .
news and current affairs division .
production services division .
engineering division .
marketing division .
administration division .
airtime analysis .
finance division .
statement of directors’ responsibility .
financial report .
audit report .
message from the chairman .
for over three decades we have been fulfilling our national obligation while remaining at the forefront of mass communication on behalf of all sri lankans .
the challenges that lie ahead grow ever more complex than those we have left behind .
over two dozen competitors have entered the market where we enjoyed near monopoly thirty years ago .
while many private channels resort to extreme commercialism in the midst of intense competition we continue to honour our national responsibility and cater to audiences without compromising good taste and higher standards .
keeping pace with rapid technological advances in the field is an imperative .
there is a need of considerable spending in order to do so .
we have been successful in absorbing the very high cost involved in this process .
the long list of local as well as international awards and accolades we have won this year is ample proof for the recognition and appreciation of the national duty which we have fulfilled creatively .
our list of awards is a clear evident of that .
overcoming challenges in the market  we have surpassed our projected targets of income  signifying yet another major achievement .
the introduction of dubbed versions of highquality foreign teledrama series such as “oshin” and “sujatha diyani” proved to be a tremendous success in winning massive audiences as well as securing recordbreaking income figures for the airtime belt of 630 pm  which previously had no market value .
accomplishing all this while eradicating wasteful practices and financial irregularities was yet another remarkable achievement .
with the purchase of essential engineering and studio equipment we have also saved a huge sum of money which could have otherwise been spent for outsourcing .
the need for a formal plan to maintain optimum functioning as well as to overcome future challenges has been recognized accordingly  we have been able to formulate a corporate plan for the time period 2013 – 2017 and commence operations with a view to achieve annual targets .
it was undoubtedly the ample support and commitment by our entire staff including managers that have made all this possible .
in appreciation  it was a great pleasure to felicitate with gold those staff members who have completed 30 years of dedicated service .
we also remember with gratitude the blessings of his excellency the president  the hon minister of mass media and information  secretary to the ministry and the support of our board of directors .
needless to say that the real strength behind has been our viewers who embraced the national television network throughout these decades .
it is with all your support that we continue to strive towards fulfilling your needs while maintaining high standards and developing quality programmes as well as uplifting good taste  ultimately to reach heights of excellence in the field of television broadcasting in sri lanka .
chairman .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
board of directors .
chairman .
board member .
board member .
board member .
only for january month .
board member .
board member .
board member .
board meetings were held eight times during the year 2012 .
chairman .
chief executive officer .
deputy director general finance manager .
deputy director general engineering .
deputy director general production services .
deputy director general programmes .
director news .
director administration .
acting director marketing .
directors of the corporation in 2012 .
administration division .
director research  training .
chief internal auditor .
director security services .
up to 16092012 .
programme division .
director film and dubbing .
director drama .
director educational programme .
up to 22082012 .
director general programme .
engineering division .
director engineering .
production services division .
director production services .
director production services .
finance division .
director supplies .
programmes that won local accolades during 2012 .
programme .
award .
recipient of the award .
sumathi tele awards .
binari teledrama .
best lyrics .
binari teledrama .
best singer .
soiliyas .
best documentary programme .
jathika pasala alevel drama  theatre .
best educational programme .
cobe sarisara .
best sports programme of the year .
the best news reporting .
special jury award .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation news division .
sitha nivana katha poya teledram .
special jury award .
raigam teles awards .
binari teledrama .
best apparel design .
apuru iskole mahatthaya .
best documentary programme .
best sports programmes of the year .
best tamil news reader .
“rise  shine” programme .
best female presenter of the year .
siyambalanduwe athage nikama yama .
best current affairs programme .
duli pintharu teledrama .
best lighting of the year .
tomiyai kitiyai animated programme .
best children programme .
signis tele awards .
best 3d animation .
ath kanda lihiniyateledrama 2011 .
best trailer .
yasa isuru teledrama 1 .
best singer .
best lyrics .
best music composer .
soliyas .
the popular documentary programme of the year .
bunka awards .
in recognition of the artistic talents contributed through the electronic media .
the best artist of the year .
state tele awards .
sakvittho teledrama .
best make up artist .
merit award for acting .
yasa isuru teledrama .
best singer .
best music director .
best actress .
soiliyas .
best documentary programme .
pulathisi diyaniya .
merit award .
nadunana minisun  2011 .
best documentary programme .
mal gudi day .
the best dubbing programme .
ranga bhumi .
best set designing .
pudumaippen .
best teledrama .
manvasenai .
best  educational  cultural  programme .
sama geetha – peace songs .
best music programme .
film city .
best  presenter .
film city – interview  with national short film producers .
saarc international film festival .
apuru iskole mahattaya .
special jury award for documentary programme .
nominated programmes at awards ceremonies .
abu awards festival .
manushya single episode teledrama .
for jury award nominated for the final round .
raigam tele awards .
duli pintaru teledrama .
merit award for creative directing .
binari teledrama .
best supporting actor  nominee .
best supporting actress  nominee .
best programme presenter of the year .
thrikonamitiya programme – gceol .
best educational programme .
delft dupathe sancharaya .
best documentary programme .
soyamu pilithuru .
best quiz programme of the year .
state tele awards .
the film ‘bashu’ .
nominated as a best dubbed programme .
sakvittho teledrama .
best supporting actor .
best editing .
“yasa isuru” teledrama .
nominated for best actor .
eberthu etha teledrama .
best teledrama .
“eberthu etha ” jathika rupavahiniya .
best teledrama director .
best actor .
best singer .
sumathi tele awards .
story of cricket sri lanka .
best sport programme .
amla bashma  lavana .
best education programme .
binari teledrama .
best upcoming actor  nominee .
best upcoming actress  nominee .
ranga boomi .
best documentary programme  nominee .
programmes division .
drama division .
focusing attention on capturing a large number of viewers  this unit produced many entertainment and single episode teledramas on varied themes and whilst producing these teledramas the unit maintained high standards from the inception of teledrama production and this is considered as a great achievement .
it is important to note that the teledramas produced during this year won many accolades and were able to capture the intended target audience .
in times when viewers were inclined to raise questions about the quality of the present day’s mega teledramas  this unit was able to introduce a novel concept to mega teledramas with the production of “isiwara ranakeli” which is a long running teledrama  whichin turn  this captured the attention of a vast number of viewers and proved to be a turning point in the mega teledrama culture .
special projects carried out in 2012 .
dooli pintharu teledrama .
from 18092011 to 27052012 .
siriduwa wedida single episode teledrama .
2012 .
to commemorate sinhala and tamil new year .
manushya single episode teledrama .
2012 .
to commemorate vesak .
salmal landa teledrama .
ransirimal teledrama .
boralu para teledrama .
vijjakaraya single episode teledrama .
20121001 .
to commemorate the world children’s and elder’s day .
yali pibidee single episode teledrama .
2012 .
to commemorate christmas .
batahira ahasa adaraneeya yavvanaya live .
on every tuesday .
angili salakuna .
telecast at 1130 pm on thursday from july up to october 2012 .
sunday ayubowan .
on the first sunday of every month .
ranga bhoomi .
on the second and fourth sundays of every month till september 2012 .
educational and documentary programme .
poson poya day live telecast .
from thanthirimale .
esala poya day live telecast .
from somawathiya .
salalihini rupa kavya .
to commemorate rupavahini’s 30th anniversary .
saddharma makaranda programme .
daily from 1st september 2012 to 31st december 2012 .
thunthara bodhiya relegious programme .
every poya day from month of october 2012 .
rupavahini state award ceremony and sumathi teleawards ceremony .
jana niyamuwano programme .
to comomorate 12th anniversary of dharmasiri senanayake .
daha ata sanniya shanthi karmaya .
to mark broadcasting cooperations’s 87th anniversary .
music unit .
programs produced and telecasted by the sri lanka rupavahini corporation music unit in 2012 .
music programs .
produced other programmes .
kunkuma pottu popular tamil chart show .
sisindra show .
vesak for children .
prathibha prabha .
ridee tharaka popular sinhala chart show .
wednesday nugasevana .
rhythm chat  entertaining music programme .
gee sara .
pasku gee .
anula gee sara .
paramitha live telecast .
bunka awards .
miyasi visaka .
gusi peace award .
sanda diya dothak a conversational programme with musicians .
janapathi seth pirith .
christmas songs .
avurudu udanaya .
sanda ranga madala .
saman devalaye perahera live telecast .
poya day live telecast .
rajathasara programme .
sports unit .
kreeda visithuru” programme national  international sports events was telecasted every week and the dialog kit sports programme as a coproduction with t1 organization was telecasted every tuesday .
the world sports programme featuring international events conducted in english was telecasted weekly on channel eye .
live programs telecast in 2012 .
london olympic 2012 was telecasted as a live and special event for 17 days .
cocacola cricket pathway game events  3rd stage  here 06 programmes were telecasted .
new year in japan  new year celebration of the sri lankan people living in japan .
the air force cycle raceguwavn hamuda papedi savariya  live telecast for three days .
bradby shield rugby encounter first stage  colombo  second stage  kandy .
mahaweli games beginning and the end of the program was live telecasted  in other days special events were telecasted .
15th asian junior athletic championship live telecast for 03 days  from sugathadaasa stadium .
celvary super cross motor competition live telecast from ibbagamuwa for 06 hours .
rotherham circuit meet  motor competitions  live telecast from katukurunda for 07 hours .
program administration unit .
the main responsibility of this unit is to review cost estimates pertaining to the programs of all divisions and units of sri lanka rupavahini corporation  and to provide administrative services required from issuing of file numbers for each production in order to coordinate all other services until the production process of a program is completed .
the program administration unit has opened 2005 program record files for the year 2012 .
various programs division .
educational programs division .
news and current affairs division .
marketing division .
ntv unit .
channel eye .
total .
special unit .
programmes produced by this unit during the year 2012 .
panampattu talaimannar – kachchatheevu .
the awakening of the lives of the people in northern  eastern areas after defeating terrorism  the awakening of tourism and about the places of worship that were isolated for almost 30 years .
yodha wawa .
this programme highlighted the project of yodha wewa in the northern and eastern areas with postwar progress have allowed paddy cultivation to resume successfully .
vasthra .
this is the story of the contributions that the government provided to sustain the country’s local textile industry and the workers’ efforts in every valuable task .
wana vaduna wanaman .
this programme depicts the attempts by the aboriginal people to sustain their traditional life style once again and the way they have got used to the modern society and the country’s war .
rambakenna oya project .
this is a set of steps taken by the government to mobilize local and foreign institutions without acquiring foreign aids to uplift the life style of daduru oya people who were suffering due to illiteracy and poverty .
unu kirigal kanden rukul pojjata .
this is a small section from the autobiography of the world’s oldest aboriginal man  henanigala  the chief of vaddahs .
waw pokuna .
the strategies adopted by the government to develop the life styles of village communities and the tanks as well as the change of the rural artistic affairs .
kachchatheevu .
a documentary programme on kachchatheevu island produced to depict the extensive freedom for travelling within the territory of sri lanka  after regaining unity .
youth programmes and performing arts unit .
this unit carries out their duties under the supervision of deputy director general programmes and director general programmes and the programmes produced and telecast by the unit during the year 2012 .
‘thala’ – channa upuli dancing concert live telecast  lotus theatre .
kapilawasthu tooth relic take in procession live telecast  katunayake .
agrabodhi temple kanthale kapilawasthu tooth relic taking in procession live telecast .
cremation of ven wevaldeniya medhalnkara thero of sri lanka ramanya nikaya  live telecast  meerigama .
kapilawasthu tooth relic take in procession live telecast  tissa maharamaya .
handa maama golden jubilee programme live telecast  sri lanka broadcasting corporation .
buddhist news – poya day – telecasting islandwide buddhist news .
alakamandawa – this is a programme  which reveals autobiographies of artists  who have contributed immensely to the field of art .
sunday ayubowan .
eye tune  english songs telecast through channel eye and ntv channel .
sitha nivana katha  single episode tele drama – telecast every poya day .
batahira ahasa programeme – live magazine programme .
suhani rath  presented with an introductory for hindi songs fans .
vasuliya – magazine programme aimed at youth .
nugasevana  mondays  thursdays .
program presentation unit .
this unit ensures that the daily transmission of all programs on the national channel  nethra  channel eye and ntv channels run smoothly and provides a balanced line up of programs to viewers .
it is this unit’s responsibility to compare the program line ups scheduled with those of the other television stations and present the programs in an appropriate manner and also enter the programs to the lineup that are suitable for family viewing .
educational programs division .
education services unit .
the education services unit has the task of producing formal and non formal educational programs that are helped to improve the knowledge of the children of the nation .
“rupavahini jathika pasala” commenced in 2011 and was telecast continuously throughout 2012  is a formal educational program produced by the unit and was dedicated to students sitting for gce al .
it has currently produced 500 programmes by covering 18 subjects .
formal educational programs for gce ol students were also telecast continuously under the theme of “jathika pasala” .
a series of workshops on “rupavahini jathika pasala – gce ol” have been conducted to coincide with the ‘dayata kirula 2013’ which was held in the ampara district .
04 schools were selected from difficult areas of the district and a series of workshops was conducted for which more than 3000 students participated .
“nena mihira” program which is an educational support program for students sitting the grade 5 scholarship examination became popular amongst the students .
the main reason for the popularity of the ‘nana mihira paper sets’ was  that airing  the nana mihira programme coincide with the gr 5 scholarship .
twenty workshops were conducted for the students who sat for the grade 5 scholarship in 2012 all over the island with an overall participation of 25 000 students .
the child who came 1st in the island from the grade 5 scholarships 2012 had also watched the nena mihira programme series continuously and the specialty  was that she also participated at the workshop held at kandy .
the programme ‘ranga bhoomy’ aiming the students who follow drama and aesthetic education was telecast throughout the year 2012 on sundays .
a quiz program titled “dhamma gaveshi” aiming to enhance the dhamma knowledge of students attending dhamma schools around the island ended in december .
the team representing badulla district won the 1st place at the competition consisting of 23 programmes .
the programme ‘u  i’ commenced with the intention of promoting the english language was popular programme among the viewers .
a significant programme called ‘rividina arunella’ was produced with the national objective of motivating the community to the field of agriculture and was launched as a web cast .
live telecast of this was commenced from december within sri lanka rupavahini corporation s new premises .
another specialty  of this programme was the agriculturist  mr udaya silva  interacting with the viewers’ questions via the phone during the live telecasts .
the children unit .
in the year 2012 the children unit telecast its programmes under themes of ‘siyapathvila’ and ‘minipahan weta’ .
this program was produced by the sri lanka rupavahini corporation in collaboration with abu  malaysia  under the children’s drama promotion project for the 4th consecutive year and the program “supipi piyum” which was produced by mr suranimala jinendrasinghe was telecast over on nhk channel  in japan on august 2012 .
documentary unit .
the key function of this unit is producing documentary programmes .
however  other related programmes are also produced .
out of these programmes  the unit mainly focuses on  live telecasts quiz programs  health programs  and formal and informal educational programs .
a weekly time slot has already been maintained titled ‘dhara’ to televise documentary programmes at 730 pm on sundays .
many documentary programs were produced and telecast under the various topics on nature  personalities  history  archaeology and human life .
all the producers in the unit made their contribution by producing programs for the time belt .
the high quality popular programs made by the producers of the documentary unit won the best awards for the documentary programmes category at sumathi  raigam and state awards ceremonies .
it was a great achievement that all the nominations for the documentary programs were from the sri lanka rupavahini corporation documentary unit at the award ceremonies .
our target was to set the above record in the year 2011 and we were able to fulfill our determination in the year 2012 .
the aim of this unit is to winning all nominations in the documentary category in all future award ceremonies too .
the quiz program titled “suwa nena” was produced in collaboration with ministry of education coinciding with the “world aids day” .
the telecast of the series of program continued until the year 2012 .
apart from the production of these programs  religious programs were also produced by the documentary unit .
the production and supervision of religious programs was assigned to general programmes division from june 2012 .
however  the christian and catholic religious programs  supuwatha and the magazine programme sudasuna  were produced under supervision of documentary unit along with the live telecast of easter  christmas divine service .
the program project carried out on behalf of the exhibition dayata kirula 2012 held at oya maduwa  anuradhapura was also conducted under the supervision of educational programmes division but the main responsibility of the project had to be taken over by the documentary unit .
as part of this exhibition  a new   programme titled ‘dayata  kirula gee taruwa’ was commenced in order to show case the hidden signing talents of children in the area .
through this  five talented children were selected as finalists  and graded as “a” grade singers of sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
the documentary unit is responsible of producing the “sunday ayubowan” program televised on every third sunday of the month .
this program televised under the theme “sathara diganthe” is produced at external locations focusing on the tourism industry .
the etv unit project under the theme of “jathika pasala” was assisted by the producers of documentary unit .
a magazine titled salalihini watha  released on 21032012 in order to mark the 30th anniversary of sri lanka rupavahini corporation and that was a special contribution by the documentary unit .
it indicates the articles of the history of sri lanka rupavahini corporation almost 30 years  present states and the future vision .
introducing new programs .
the magazine programmes which were off air for quite some time  recommenced under the theme of “aruma puduma roda hathara” .
this program was among the top 20 programs of sri lanka rupavahini corporation since the first telecast and was maintained until the end of year .
with the intention to elevate health programs  a magazine program was commenced under the theme of “ayubowewa” .
for the first time in history  a live “pirith chanting” was telecast at the sacred sri pada .
the corporation generated additional income by entering into sponsorship agreements with various institutions to produce such programs .
these were produced and telecast in 2012 and continuing in 2013 .
‘sarisara’ –the beach traveler is a popular documentary programme series produced by us .
books were introduced to the public through the programs ‘dharana’  ‘dina asiriya’ and ‘sagna puwath’ .
news and current affairs division .
news division .
the news and current affairs division makes a great contribution continually to produce daily news  disseminating accurate information to the viewers .
news is daily telecast in sinhala  english and tamil from 755 am to 1010 pm .
sinhala .
755 am to 555 pm – hourly news local and international .
main news telecasts .
1230 pm to 100 pm  rupavahini diva puwath .
0800 pm to 0830 pm – main sinhala news .
tamil .
825 am to 525 pm – hourly news .
130 pm to 145 pm  diva puwath .
700 pm to 730 pm  main tamil news .
in year 2012 provincial council election was held in east  north central and sabaragamuwa provinces .
the news division was able to give a comprehensive coverage of the respective districts from the pre publicity to issuing of final results .
with the fullest support from the it unit  the news division was able to telecast the election results successfully .
the media coverage of the london olympics from the 24th of june to the 15th of august 2012 was carried out with great responsibility .
the news division was able to air a special coverage of london olympics through an hourly and main news telecast .
the news division played a significant role by telecasting live coverage of dayata kirula  vesak and poson festival .
the news division rendered a great service for the country’s betterment by allocating more time to televise the progress of development activities taking place around the country and disseminate the information to the public .
the main news telecast in sinahala  english and tamil 3 ½ hours per day totaling to 105 hours per month  sinhala hourly news 01 hour per day totaling to 30 per month .
similarly  time has been allocated in the primary and secondary channels for tamil news .
breaking news was telecast in three languages  sinhala  english and tamil .
moreover  sivudesa foreign news commentary was telecast daily from 600 am to 625 am .
the graphic unit attached to the news division played a substantial role to telecast the news .
the themes required for news  including all the graphic dealings  are performed by the graphic unit .
apart from that  the graphic unit supports the functions that belong to the current affairs unit and create the graphics for programs as well .
moreover  the editing of the visuals gathered through internet by the f t p technique .
the cg that is required for news also complies with the unit .
the network of correspondents has also become stronger than before .
fiftyfour correspondents were recruited in the year 2012 by way of a threesession interview .
the contribution of correspondents was also a great influence for the production of news and more scope was provided for correspondence at the 1000 pm news and the hourly news .
asia vision unit also played a vital role .
providing foreign news for hourly news telecast and main news is the main role of them as well .
this unit is responsible for  the president’s coverage including local and international official tours of the president the provision of technical assistance for the usage of the telepromptor at the speeches given by the president in special occasions  televising the development activities taking place around the country  and the  excellent progress of these development projects  telecasting news alerts .
current affairs unit .
the current affairs unit comes under the supervision of news and current affairs division .
current affairs unit consists of two main sections .
they are sinhala and tamil sections .
in the year 2012  this unit has produced a considerable amount of programmes .
among those  the current political programmes are considered as major programmes .
every monday  a time period of 02 hours has been allocated for the programmes ‘vedikava’ and ‘haraskada’ .
in addition to this  the unit has produced quite a number of programs that were telecast on a weekly basis .
‘friday’s nugasevana’  ‘saturday ayubowan’  ‘thirasara’  ‘rasa mohootha’ and ‘ayubowewa’ are notable within the programmes .
through these programmes an attempt was taken to provide assistance to fulfill the existing needs .
the live telecast of news headling from 555am to 625am is also another production of this unit .
this unit was responsible for producing and telecasting the live program ‘amadam sisilasa’ which was telecast on every poya day from 900am to 1000am under the leadership of the president and the current affairs units also undertook the live coverage of h e the president’s arrival at special occasions .
the first ever military reality musical program in the world titled “ranaviru real star” was supervised and produced throughout the year 2012 successfully by this unit .
in addition to the above  this unit also produced special programs on national importance  such as the national independence day  victory day  collecting the new harvest festival ‘aluth sahal mangalya’ in a timely manner .
the tamil unit of the news  current affairs division produced and telecast ‘naaledugalil indru’– news paper headlines  ‘abhiviruththip panikal ’  government development drive  ‘vidiyalai nokki’ discussion on government development drive  ‘kandathum kettaththum’ weekly magazine programme  ‘ulagavalam’ world political programme  over channel eye in tamil medium .
on the weekends ‘sadurangam’ a one hour political conference program  ‘vilaiyaattu manjari’ the sports programmes were also telecasted .
in addition to the above programs  special programmes which are important to the current situations and overseas tours of he the president and special programs in tamil medium were also telecasted .
this unit consists of five producers and ten production assistants are working in this division .
production services division .
the production services division takes the forefront in providing creative services required for all productions of sri lanka rupavahini corporation both in studio and at external locations .
the production services division consists of 11 units .
camera .
recording sound management and multi camera .
lighting .
make  up .
graphics and animation .
special graphics and animation .
set  props .
efp equipment .
rajatha studio .
efp support .
library .
this unit is managed by the deputy director general production services who is also responsible for the administration and supervision of the channel eye  nethra and ntv channels .
the expenses for transport and electricity was brought down directly  by using the rajatha studio for studio program productions and live program productions up to some extent .
steps have already been taken to transform the studio within next year .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation was able to make considerable savings by purchasing new jib arm equipment  eliminating the necessity to hire from external parties .
additionally  we were able to add a high standard visual quality for drama and musical productions as we purchased a special effect filter and a clay box .
during the year 2012 this unit has contributed its service in more than 2165 field programmes  over 6750 studio productions and 400 outdoor broadcasting programs .
this unit comprises a staff with 30 years’ experience that could maintain quality and technically high standard of the programs and provide service on shift duty basis continuously .
from december 2010  the multi camera unit commenced its field service and was able to curtail the number of staff involved at a production which helped in lowering the budget of program production during the year 2012 .
through the successful and efficient contribution of the existing small external recording vehicles  66 recordings and .
live telecasts were made during the year 2012 .
makeup unit .
activities done by the makeup unit in 2012 .
this unit undertakes necessary makeup for the artists who take part in take part in the production program of sri lanka rupavahini corporation from 530am to 1030pm on a daily basis .
this unit undertakes necessary makeup for up to 75  100 artists who take part in programmes which also includes live programmes  from 530am to 1030pm on a daily basis .
the unit contributed a great deal by undertaking the makeup for the “ranaviru real star” reality tv program in 2012 .
the makeup unit contributed for “ransirimal”  “salmal landa”  and ‘nirsathvayo’ which were new tele dramas produced by the drama unit and rendered their fullest services to all other external productions of sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
other than dramas  the makeup unit provided their service to the other station productions  such as new year live programs  vesak  poson  poya live programs  vesak tele drama and carols  monthly poya live programs  ‘sitha nivana katha’ tele series  dayata kirula  documentary programs  educational programs  catholic programs  christmas  tele dramas and carols .
the assistant director and the 14 staff of makeup unit have provided tremendous service for the above programmes including daily lottery programs .
graphics and animation unit .
the staff of the graphics and animation unit rendered remarkable service by creating graphic and animations for ‘ranaviru real star’ program and creating graphics and lettering for all educational programs and studio editing similarly .
the 3d and 2d graphics and the creativities the staff provided for the programs have helped to up lift the quality of the programs and were able to obtain the highest ratings for the programs as same .
set and props unit .
the number of projects and activities that the set department fulfilled in 2012 are as follows .
new sets .
single episode tele dramas .
tele drama series .
poya live telecast .
outstation .
set designers .
programme commended .
institute .
new year greeting cards .
the best creation .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
ranaviru real star ii .
dialog .
ranaviru real star ii .
dialog .
manushya single episode drama .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
‘hurubuhuti’ children’s prog .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
the staff of the set department contributed their services for quiet number of programmes .
2012 provincial election .
dayata kirula 2012 anuradhapuraya .
2012 anniversary pirith mandapaya .
2012 anniversary programme .
jana madhya hamuwa .
30th anniversary .
avurudu udanaya monaragala covering 09 provinces .
avurudu udanaya studio 4 .
buddhabhi vandana nelum pokuna .
sinhala news set .
bunka awards .
poson live telecast thanthirimale .
london olympic 2012 .
sihina  hathak .
nugasevana new set .
jathika pasala .
aruma puduma roda hathara .
‘vedikawa’ special programme .
kapilawasthu tooth relic pradarshanaya .
international book exhibition .
deepavali musical programmes .
threethal musical programmes .
world children’s day programme set .
oshin inauguration event .
ranaviru real star – final programme’s set .
sunday ayubowan 09 sets .
batahira ahasa aththidiya .
special christmas telecast .
christmas carol tamil   street drama .
teledrama series .
salmal landa long drama .
ran sirimal .
vishva gaveshi drama .
single episode .
sitha nivana katha – 10 .
avururdu teledrama – 01 .
vesak teledrama 01 .
tamil tele drama – 01 .
children teledrama  01 .
library .
the library is considered as one of the main units of the sri lanka rupavahini corporation under the supervision of programme production service .
this unit consists of 19 staff members .
the specialty of the sri lanka rupavahini corporation library is the way it is maintaining the information both in print and visual media for program productions .
special projects .
preserving umatic cassettes and preparations to preserve cassettes using xd cam technology .
the advantage of this preserving system is that the visuals copied in that format will be preserved for nearly 50 years without harming its technical qualities .
rest of the advantages includes the ability to sore within only a very small space and protecting the cassettes from fungus and other damages .
channel eye .
the programs telecast on channel eye are .
“rise  shine  variety program  live telecast daily .
“eye shuffle” – western music program     new songs   live telecast .
“cafe classics” – music program  old hits  live telecast .
“sunday spice” – variety program on meeting artists .
“merry christmas” – special christmas music program .
“poya discussion” – poya discussion program .
discussions  current affairs .
tamil program unit  nethra tv .
the tamil program unit caters to tamil speaking viewers of the country  focusing on tamil language programs .
the programs telecast on nethra tv are in the following order .
vanakkam nethra .
discussion programme  weekly live telecast .
udaya dharisanam .
magazine programme  weekly live telecast .
lunch time music .
live music programme  weekly live telecast .
education programme .
daily live telecast for gce ol  al students .
saivaneedi .
hindu religious program .
pattam poochchikal .
children entertainment program .
pudam puthu kalai .
magazine program .
weekend .
live telecast .
m930 .
music program .
jaikkalam vanga .
talent show .
kodei mazlei .
magazine music program .
natya .
tamil local tele drama .
ippadikku sattam .
sri lankan law related program .
echanneling .
medical program .
samayal gallery .
cooking program .
kodei vasandam .
magazine program .
brindawani .
classical music program .
film city .
local short film making programme .
kaveetha talent .
talent show  sponsored by higher education ministry .
udira pookkal .
magazine program .
other special programs .
new year and nethra anniversary .
thai pongal .
special live cultural  traditional program .
thaipongal special tele drama .
thaipongal special musical program .
matale theru festival .
maha shiva rathri day .
sinhala  hindu new year .
vesak celebration .
poson celebration .
nallur annual theru celebration .
world children’s day .
deepavalee celebration .
christmas program .
muslim programs unit .
the muslim programs unit is attached to the production services division .
this unit consists of an assistant director  02 producers  01 production assistant and a typist clerk .
this unit produces programs catering to muslim viewers .
this is done under religious  cultural and traditional themes enabling the muslim community to be in touch with their religion and culture .
engineering division .
the engineering division contributes directly to maintaining the corporation’s technical standards in programme production and transmission at international standards .
this division consists of the master control room  studios  transmission  maintenance  information  communication technology  power and air conditioning and civil engineering units which are further divided in to sub units based on their responsibilities .
the maintenance unit is divided into basic maintenance and eng maintenance sub units .
various projects are also undertaken in addition to these .
five studios and three outdoor transmission vehicles are utilized in the programme production process while 13 transmission stations established around the country are utilized in process .
they are  pidurutalagala  deniyaya  sooriyakanda  hanthana  primrose  kirimatiyakanda  namunukula  palali  padagala  hingulakanda  kokavil  bambalapitiya and torrington transmission station .
the various services rendered by the units and subunits of this division over this year have also been given in summary from below and this division is supervised by the deputy director general engineering .
main control room .
1 the mcr received 02 nle adobe cs 60 work stations for drama editing .
2 mcr old ceiling removed and new metal ceiling installed .
3 during olympic station 03 lobby was taken as a expanded studio to provide live coverage .
4 digital arching of old programmes with two new xdcam pdw 1500 machines installed in mcr there were 50 000 hours of rupavahini productions  national events to be archived  and planned to purchase more xdcam machines to speed the process .
this project was commenced at a cost of 46 million and expected to expand urgently .
studios and outdoor telecasts .
as in the previous years  studio 1  studio 2  studio 3 and rajatha outdoor studio were facilitated to produce variety of programmes in both live telecasts and recordings deputy director engineer studios and outside broadcasting is responsible for the management  operations  maintenance and developments of studios under the direction of ddg e .
in studios and outside broadcasting unit  05 nos of assistant directors engineering  36 nos of technical officers and 12 nos of studio and outside broadcast assistants have been employed in 2012 .
following programmes were produced as block bookings using studio facilities .
studio 1 .
dawase paththara .
vinivida  nugasevana .
development lottery draw .
saturday ayubowan .
hiru viyana .
business world .
jathika pasala .
ranga bhoomi .
gee sara .
sandurangam .
malimabrinthavani .
sunday spiceeye shufflecafé classis .
film city .
studio 2 .
lama puwath .
siwudesa .
buddhist news .
vanakkam nethra .
udhaya darisanam .
arivoli .
asi disi puwath .
dina asiriya .
ulaha valem .
emithuro .
thirasara .
namma sunday .
vilayattu manjari .
kreeda visithuru .
m 930 .
studio 3 .
rise and shine .
pehasaraniya .
sunday ayubowan .
haraskada .
national lottery board draw .
rajathasara .
sanda diya dothak .
7 dreams .
ira andurupata .
gee muthu .
hurubuhuti .
pattam poochigal .
puththam putu kaalai .
raga maydai .
pirai nila .
muthuhara .
ridi reyak .
rhythm chat .
in addition “rasi manjari”  “nana mihira”  “yathirai”  “sanda ranga mandala”  “daham bima”  “paramitha”  “diriyata saviyak”  “u  i english programme” were produced as normal booking in studios .
this jib crane system was repaired and modified by retired cameraman working in camera unit .
this has being utilized successfully and it save remarkable cash out avoiding the outsourcing of jimmy jib systems from outside suppliers .
and also  after installing this  there are 05 nos of camera has been facilitated in studio no 3 for programme productions .
outside broadcasting .
outside broadcasting facilities were also operated by the supervision and the direction of deputy director studio and outside broadcasting under the direction of deputy director general engineering .
in 2012 also  there were lot of outside broadcasting events covered by using outside broadcasting  1 and outside broadcasting 2 and there are 66 outside broadcasting events have been covered .
ranaviru real star .
amadam sisilasa .
sunday ayubowan .
nawam perahera .
sport live programmes .
sigiriya super cross .
vijayaba motor race .
air force motor race .
fox hill super cross .
gajaba super cross .
katukurunda motor races .
gluco six cricket tournament .
youth games .
rupavahini volleball .
6 musical programmes .
smib samarusara musical .
mahaweli musical show .
kavita .
christmas musical show .
7 independence day live .
8 sinhala and tamil new year live .
9 buddhabivanda vesak programme .
10 nawagamuwa perahera .
11 janapathi jana hamuwa .
12 children’s day .
13 christmas mid night mass .
14 miss ceylinco vip .
15 deyata kirula .
16 election result telecast .
17 poya programme .
transmission unit .
1 completed installation  testing and commissioning of digital tv transmission project for the northern province on february 2012 .
2 provided live linking facilities for 120 nos of outside broadcast events across the country .
3 this includes the providing of live linking facilities for air force cycle race 2012 from 15 locations for 03 days including the start and finish .
4 produced a digital satellite news gathering dsng system for the use of satellite linking technology for outside broadcast events and the dsng is being used for outside broadcast events since november 2012 .
maintenance unit 1 .
major equipment repairs   157 .
miscellaneous duties   532 .
ob duties  54 .
including major obs with slowmotion facilities .
air force race .
independence ceremony .
sigiriya super cross .
boyagane motor cross .
new year ob monaragala .
foxhill super cross .
asian championship .
bradby shield rugby .
walave super cross .
minneriya super cross .
gajaba super cross .
katukurunda motor cross .
sumathi tele awards .
national youth games .
special assignments .
exhibition stall at dayata kirula .
special studio preparation for olympic in studio .
provided the following technical facilities for studio and outside productions .
pa system setups .
video projector facilities .
scan converter facilities .
maintenance unit 11 .
following operations were carried out .
camcorders .
preventive maintenance .
special maintenance .
fault repairs .
portable vcrs preventive maintenance .
special maintenance .
fault repairs .
camera lenses fault repairs .
video monitors fault repairs .
audio monitors fault repairs .
camera power adaptor chargers fault repairs .
light equipment fault repairs .
specification preparations .
tender evaluation .
acceptance tests .
information and communication technology unit .
information and communication technology unit managing sri lanka rupavahini corporation lan with active  passive components including 290 computers with 90 printers with 15 servers including web server  mail server with 1000 email accounts  application servers  time  attendance server etc .
computer hardware maintenance  sri lanka rupavahini corporation website wwwrupavahinilk development and maintenance and inhouse software application development carried out by ict staff .
apart from that development  implementation of software for the live sport events were carried out .
further  development and implementation of software for the telecast of election results was carried out as a special task .
1 upgrade the 2mbps internet leased line to 4 mbps .
2 relaunch the wwwrupavahinilk web site .
3 on demand video streaming started with tele drama  news sinhala  tamil musical programme and special events with high quality video five different geographical locations mirror servers and .
ensure the fast contest delivery to the whole world with zero down time .
4 real time video streaming of rupavahini channel throughout the transmission .
5 real time video streaming of channel eye channel on important events .
6 making technical arrangements in order to cater the individuals who use the mobile and other device for viewing .
7 refurbish of ict unit started .
8 provided technical facilities for the time  attendance system running with biometric devices .
9 sri lanka rupavahini corporation lan fiber ring upgrade as a phrase .
10 user training on microsoft office 2010 .
11 new ftp facility to news room with sri lanka telecom shared 100gb disk space and point to point leased line from slt to sri lanka rupavahini corporation news room .
power and air conditioning unit .
this unit carried out preventive maintenance work of following systems monthly  quarterly and annually .
central ac systems with related motors and power panel in st1  2 project  st – 3 project .
ac systems in out broadcasting vehicles  ob – 1  ob 2  head line van  slow motion bus etc .
refrigeration equipment in staff canteen .
in addition to that attend 197 numbers of break downs of ac units and related equipment .
lay down new drain lines for each split ac units around the buildings due to request by anti dengue campaign .
installation of ac units for the following units .
book library .
room .
education unit .
music unit .
news section .
marketing division .
ups room in deniyaya txstation .
drivers room in kokavil tx station .
2d  3d animation studio .
main control room .
civil engineering unit .
rebuilt the toilet of engineering division .
repaired the drains of studio complex .
supplied furniture to the maintenance unit .
renovated the main control room .
renovated the 2d  3d animation studio .
supplied furniture to 2d  3d animation studio .
supplied furniture to music unit .
fixed the ceiling of makeup unit .
renovated it unit .
repaired inner roads of sri lanka rupavahini corporation premises .
marketing division .
the marketing division operates under the purview of deputy director general marketing and in order to carry out its functions efficiently  the marketing division is divided into following main units .
administration unit .
marketing unit .
scheduling  unit .
marketing promotion unit .
recovery unit .
publicity and media unit .
commercial production  unit .
the following special programs were instrumental in the increase in earnings in 2012 .
sinhala  hindu new year programs .
vesak poson celebrations .
women’s day program .
oshin .
sujatha diyaniya .
children’s day .
the ranaviru real star reality tv program .
motor racing events .
the unit was able to generate additional income as indicated below by organizing and telecasting promotional programs for clients and also from various sponsorships .
sinhala  hindu new year programme .
this year too  the print media was used to promote all channels and also to give publicity to various programs being telecast  through the publicity and media unit .
the companies engaged for this purpose on contract basis are .
lake house .
upali newspapers .
sumathi newspapers .
rivira media pvt ltd .
aiming at increasing the viewership  advertisements were published through these organizations according to a proper plan  throughout the year in sinhala  tamil and english languages .
the scheduling unit supports the marketing division to fulfil their income targets by proper scheduling and telecasting of advertisements obtained from clients through healthy relationships .
the scheduling unit has scheduled 389 879 commercials during 2012 .
the marketing programs production unit continued to produce the popular lotteries program  “hiru wiyana”  and other promotional programs for its clients while producing trailers and commercial tagging in order to give publicity for programs .
further  the marketing production unit was responsible for producing national events and musical programs on client base the number of lottery draw programs produced daily by the unit was 1404 annually .
in the year 2012  the sinhala  hindu new year event was held covering 09 provinces the entire island and it included cycling  avurudu kumari contest and elle as well .
the final event was held under the theme ‘sirilaka piri avurudu siri rupavahini avurudu udanaya 2012’ in monaragala and captured the highest viewership in comparison with the events organized by the other channels during the april season .
this was recorded in the television history as the first ever program that covered all 09 provinces of the island .
administration division .
all the administrative functions of the sri lanka rupavahini corporation were carried out by the administration division under the guidance and direction of the sri lanka rupavahini corporation chairman .
the division was headed by the director administration .
administration unit .
public relations unit .
reception unit .
record room .
transport unit .
security unit .
research and training unit .
legal administration unit .
internal audit unit .
category of employees .
no of employees .
permanent staff .
employees work on contract basis .
employees work on assignment basis .
total employees .
approved no of employees .
the details of the employees recruited .
on permanent basis .
on contract basis .
total no of recruited .
number of employees retired .
number of employees resigned .
insurance covers .
the sri lanka rupavahini corporation entered into an agreement with the sri lanka insurance corporation to cover the medical insurance  fire insurance  and all accidental insurance schemes from 1st january 2012 to 31st december 2012 .
hospitalization and surgery insurance covers .
bills issued for hospitalization  spectacles and opd consultations were paid .
serious illness insurance .
accident insurance .
fire and all other risk insurance .
purpose of the foreign tour .
no of participants .
training programs .
meetings and seminars .
official tours and head of states event coverage .
special projects in 2012 .
a scheme to restructure the sri lanka rupavahini corporation organization was undertaken in order to streamline the recruitment process and the promotion scheme .
organizing of the “sewa prabha 2012” ceremony which was held to appreciate and felicitate the sri lanka rupavahini corporation employees who won awards at the national and international television award ceremonies .
the project of corporate plan for the period of year 2013 – 2017 was successfully completed and released .
anniversary celebrations and events .
in line with sri lanka rupavahini corporation’s 30th anniversary  an awarding ceremony was organized for the staff members of sri lanka rupavahini corporation  who have completed a service of over 25 years .
the nnnual pirith ceremony and the alms giving were organized on 14th and 15th february as part of the anniversary celebrations .
employees who completed 20 years of service at the sri lanka rupavahini corporation were presented with gold tokens in appreciation on 2nd may 2012 .
joining with the recreation club of sri lanka rupavahini corporation  organized the annual new year festival for sri lanka rupavahini corporation staff .
public relations and reception unit .
in order to make sri lanka rupavahini corporation popular  this unit has ensured providing the children who visit the rupavahini corporation with proper knowledge and sending letters to the principals about the mustwatch programmes for children .
the number of letters posted to schools within this year totaled to 709 .
the programs organized by the public relations unit include .
a medical camp with specialists doctors for the sri lanka rupavahini corporation staff in association with colombo general hospital and health ministry .
the unit conducted an ayurvedic medical camp for sri lanka rupavahini corporation staff in association with ministry of indigenous medicines .
special projects conducted to destroy dengue in association with colombo municipal council .
the unit organized a clinic to distribute spectacles among the staff free of charge .
the unit opened milco rupavahini welfare outlet .
this project was put into action under the assistance of chairman of milco and intervention of sri lanka rupavahini corporation welfare society and his outlet was opened as another canteen where the staff could buy milk  short eats and other similar food items .
transport unit .
providing transport as requested by news and program recordings  visiting locations and visiting relay centres outside colombo and providing transport for other daily duties of the sri lanka rupavahini corporation are the main functions of this unit .
59 employees are attached to this unit which is managed by two transport officers .
along with the 43 vehicles which belong to the sri lanka rupavahini corporation fleet  another 10 more vehicles were hired to ensure uninterrupted service .
the total mileage of travel undertaken by the sri lanka rupavahini corporation transport unit in the year 2012 was 1 579 976 km out of which 1 178 120 km were covered by corporation’s vehicles  and 401 856 km were covered by the hired vehicles .
when compared to the mileage of last year  this year shows a duduction of 79145 km .
80 of vehicle repairs were successfully completed within the sri lanka rupavahini corporation garages which ensured that the repairs were done properly while saving costs .
03 employees were newly recruited for the garage .
security unit .
the service of the army forces  private security as well as the security officers of sri lanka rupavahini corporation is taken to fulfil the services .
also this unit has the responsibility to keep the premises clean with the assistance of bmes institute .
legal administration unit .
number of cases filed by sri lanka rupavahini corporation during the year 2012 .
commercial high court .
high court civil appeals .
district court .
magistrate court .
number of cases filed against sri lanka rupavahini corporation during the year 2012 .
supreme court .
commercial high court .
district court .
labour commissioner .
the progress the sri lanka rupavahini corporation achieved during the year 2012 .
some of the cases filed against sri lanka rupavahini corporation were settled in 2012 .
in addition  advertisers such as admasters  prime ads  grassroot pvt ltd and srimal advertising came to an agreement with sri lanka rupavahini corporation to settle the money they owed on installment basis .
internal audit unit .
the duties covered during the year 2012 .
number of audit checks conducted  12 .
number of audit reports submitted  10 .
number of special reports submitted to chairman  24 .
research and training unit .
the research  training unit perform their duties under the direct supervision of director general and its administration handled by the administration unit .
at a time when there is challenging competition among the rival television stations to capture the highest possible viewership it is very important to produce quality programs in order to increase the revenue the research and training unit is responsible for providing the training required to develop the corporation’s human resources and technological abilities .
training programs .
training programs .
noof programs .
no of participants .
local – training programs .
local – external training programs .
training programs conducted in collaboration with foreign training institutions .
as per the agreement between france’s cfi institute and the sri lanka rupavahini corporation  it was initially scheduled to provide expertise only for 02 workshops .
due to our special request from us  the number of workshops was increased to 03 .
accordingly a 02 week workshop for children’s programs was organized after 20 years and all the staff of children’s unit took part in it .
this is a fulfilment of the corporation’s objective for children’s programs in 2013 .
research .
several numbers of special surveys were done despite the data analysis of lmrb .
in this context it is prominent that we gather the ideas from the staff members as a solution for the problems such as the strategies taken for program standardization  identifying the problems experiencing by the management as well as the staff members and planning the remedies in order to solve such problems   in future .
the collected ideas had been considered for the 05 year action plan .
another special survey was done on children programmes of sri lanka rupavahini corporation based on world children’s day .
although here was 915 tremendous growth of the viewership for the children programs  according to the results of the survey  it is very clear this growth depended on cartoons  dubbed programs .
it was also revealed that children did not possess any specific program of any channel in their mind as preference .
airtime analysis .
the total airtime that the national channel telecast in 2012 amounted to 72837 hours .
from this amount 60143 hours were used for programs while 12695 hours of airtime was used to telecast advertisements .
the total telecast hours over the channel eye was 56243h  of which 52761 hours of airtime was allocated to telecast programs over the channel .
the telecast hours of advertisements were 3482h .
the following indicates the airtime that sri lanka rupavahini corporation channels were telecasted during the year 2012 .
air time analysis  2012 .
categorization of programmes  2012 .
national channel .
channel eye .
information programmes .
news .
political .
economic .
current affairs .
social .
ayuvbowan .
educational programmes .
education .
documentary .
agriculture .
quiz .
it .
magazine .
children programmes .
children .
cartoon .
youth programmes .
women programmes .
nugasevana .
women .
cultural  religious programmes .
cultural .
religious .
entertainment programmes .
drama .
film .
film .
music .
variety .
sports programmes .
publicity programmes .
other programmes .
total .
commercial air time  2012 .
sponsorships .
473 of the national channel’s airtime sponsorship  which amounted to 28455 hours  while 25 13210 hours of the channel eye airtime gained sponsorship in 2012 .
categorization of programmes .
national channel .
channel eye .
sponsored .
nonsponsored .
total .
scheduled programmes by language .
language .
national channel .
channel eye .
sinhala .
tamil .
english .
other .
total .
international relations unit .
in 2012 this unit directly provided its service to several special tasks .
the teledrama ‘jewell in the palace’ produced by mbc was obtained by sri lanka rupavahini corporation as a complimentary item under the patronage of korean embassy of sri lanka .
the teledrama series which consisted of 54 episodes was dubbed into sinhala under the title of ‘sujatha diyaniya’ and gained the highest viewership becoming most popular teledrama .
the musical show ‘vienna philharmonic new year concert’ which was a live telecast from vienna  austria was obtained free of charge through the satellite and this was recorded live and later on telecast .
further this unit was able to obtain documentary programs from china  korea at no cost under the patronage of relevant embassies .
another duty entrusted to this unit is to enter the highstandard programs made by various sri lanka rupavahini corporation producers or international competitions and award ceremonies .
accordingly in 2012  entries were sent in for international competitions such as prix jeunesse international in germany  abu prize 2012 in malaysia  world tv awards in thailand  u r i t grand prix author’s documentary in france  japan prize 2012 in tokyo  japan .
the international educational tours which were provided directly to the ir unit were offered to a producer for siyol – korea  02 producers for china  and 02 producers for shanhai – china under the chairman’s approval .
the high commissioners and ambassadors in diverse countries make statements for their respective countries  celebrating national and republican days   those statements were recorded by the sri lanka rupavahini corporation  the coordination part of this was handled by the ir unit .
record room .
the responsibility is to prevent pilling up documents unnecessarily in the respective units and divisions .
the responsibility is to provide space  tidiness and attractiveness in the units and divisions .
the responsibility is to provide opportunity to the staff members to carry out daily activities without any interruption as they are free from unnecessary obstacles .
the responsibility is to provide files promptly at the request of officers for purpose of administrative  legal or any other official matter .
the responsibility is to provide guidance over the disposal system by covering the office staff on obligatory instructions for a government corporation in the act 48 of 1973 and arranging the list of disposal documents accordingly .
the responsibility is to archive the files which are essential to the corporation .
finance division .
the finance division is organized around the functions of revenue  payments  salaries  bookkeeping and the costing unit .
the supplies unit too comes under the purview of the finance division .
the division primarily carries out the functions of financial management and financial reporting of the corporation .
each of the units of the finance division discharged its duties during the year 2012 efficiently  effectively and economically to bring about the optimum returns to the corporation .
all financial transactions that passed through these units were executed with integrity  transparency and objectivity .
payments on all programme files were made in accordance with applicable regulations and to support programme production and broadcasting .
the division all took the initiative to follow up on all due payments of completed programmes and met the payment obligations by the respective deadlines .
staff salaries and all other staff benefits were paid without any delay and statutory deductions were remitted to the respective institutions on or before the deadline .
primary income generated from the sale of airtime and other peripheral incomes were recorded in conformity with applicable accounting principles and standards .
the supplies unit  coming under the preview of the finance division  procured all the necessary items both capital and noncapital goods and services to support the production  direction and telecast of programmes on the main channel rupavahini  chanel eye nethra and ntv .
accurate and timely financial and management reports  generated in accordance with accounting principles and standards and were submitted to other divisions and the board of directors to take informed and responsive decisions .
accordingly  both routine and adhoc on demand reports were compiled to meet requirements .
all major financial decisions were subjected to several reviews and the resulting conclusions formed the basis of the legal and authorized decisions made for the corporation .
in comparison with other state sector institutions the corporation has not relied on any long tern loans to finance its operations moreover  it has maintained reliance on short term loans and borrowings at minimum levels .
given the current commercial and economic conditions  good financial management is indeed a challenging task .
however the division has been successful in directing the corporation’s financial management so as to safeguard the financial stability and financial independence of the corporation .
statement of director’s responsibility .
the finance act no38 of 1971 and the sri lanka rupavahini corporation act no6 of 1982 require the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year giving a true and fair view of the state of affairs of sri lanka rupavahini corporation hereinafter referred to as the “corporation” .
the directors confirm that in preparing the financial statements of the corporation  appropriate accounting policies and standards have been selected  consistently applied and supported by responsible and prudent judgments and estimates .
having reviewed the corporation’s future financial projections  cash flows and current performance  the directors consider that the corporation has adequate resources to continue operations and the directors have thus adopted a going concern basis in preparing financial statements .
the directors have taken the responsibility to ensure that the corporation maintains accounting records that disclose with responsible accuracy the financial position of the corporation as required by sri lanka rupavahini corporation act no 38 of 1971 and sri lanka accounting standards .
the directors have taken responsible measures to safeguard the assets of the corporation and to establish appropriate systems of internal controls in order to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities .
the directors also confirm that to the best of their knowledge all taxes and levies payable by the corporation  all contributions  levies and taxes payable on behalf of and in respect of the employees and all other known statutory obligations including retirement gratuities as were due as at the balance sheet date have been either duly paid or appropriately provided in the financial statements .
on behalf of the board of directors .
chairman .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
statement of financial position .
note .
31 december 2012 .
31 december 2011 .
1 january 2011 .
assets .
non – current assets .
property  plant and equipment .
intangible asset .
available for sale financial asset .
investment .
deferred income tax asset .
tsunami fund .
held to maturity financial assets .
current assets .
inventories .
trade receivables .
loans  receivables .
other receivables .
prepayments .
cash and cash equivalents .
equity and liabilities .
capital and reserves .
stated capital .
accumulated profit  loss .
non current liabilities .
government grant for capital items .
foreign aid .
tsunami fund payable .
defined benefit obligations .
finance leases payable noncurrent portion .
current liabilities .
trade payables .
other financial liabilities .
other payables .
finance leases payable current portion .
bank overdraft .
total liabilities .
total equity and liabilities .
the notes on pages 6 to 41 are from an integral part of these financial statements .
the fiancé manager certifies that the financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the sri lanka financial reporting standards as laid down by the institute of chartered accountants of sri lanka  finance act no 38 of 1971  sri lanka rupavahini corporation act of no 06 of 1982 .
mr varuna sanjaya dharmaratna .
14 march 2013 .
deputy director general .
finance manager .
the board of directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements .
these financial statements were authorized for issue by board of directors on 2nd april 2013 .
mr mohan samaranayake .
chairman .
director .
14 march 2013 .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
comprehensive income statement .
note .
31 december 2012 .
31 december 2011 .
sales .
cost of sales .
gross profit .
other operating income .
distribution costs .
administrative expenses .
operating profit .
finance costs .
profit before income tax .
income tax expenses .
total comprehensive income for the period .
the notes on pages 6 to 41 are from an integral part of these financial statements .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
statement of changes in equity .
retained earnings .
government contribution .
total .
balance at 1 january 2011 .
prior year adjustments deferred tax .
changes in accounting policies – .
adjustment in debtor provision .
balance at 01 januar0y 2011 .
balance at 01 january 2011 .
prior year adjustments deferred tax .
comprehensive income for the year .
dividend declared to government 25 .
impairment of housing loan .
changes in accounting policies – .
adjustment in debtor provision .
balance at 31 december 2011 .
balance at 01 january 2012 .
comprehensive income for the period .
adjustment in deemed dividend 2011 .
dividend declared to government 5 .
balance at 31 december 2012 .
the notes on pages 6 to 41 are from an integral part of these financial statements .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
statement of cash flows .
31 december 2012 .
31 december 2011 .
01 january 2011 .
cash flows from operating activities .
cash generated from operations .
interest paid .
interest received .
defined benefits obligations paid .
taxes paid .
net cash used ingenerated from operating activities .
the notes on pages 6 to 41 are from an integral part of these financial statements .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation notes to the financial statements .
1 general information .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation hereinafter referred to as the “corporation” was incorporated under the sri lanka rupavahini corporation act no 6 of 1982 .
the corporation operates as the national television broadcaster in sri lanka with the prime objectives of providing education  entertainment  information to a multi ethnic  multi religious sri lankan society .
total number of employees of the corporation as at 31st december 2012 was 1006 .
permanent  contract  casual grades .
the financial statements of the corporation for the year ended 31st december 2012 were authorized for issue by the board of directors on 2nd april 2013 .
2 basis of preparation and adoption of sri lanka financial reporting standards ‘slfrs’ .
the corporation prepares its financial statements in accordance with the sri lanka accounting standards ‘slfrs’ issued by the institute of charted accountants of sri lanka and the requirements of sri lanka and the requirements of sri lanka accounting and auditing standards act no 19 of 1995 .
the institute of charted accountants of sri lanka issued a new volume of sri lanka accounting standards ‘slfrs’ and to require enterprises to apply these standards effective for years beginning on or after 1 january 2012 .
the financial statements have been prepared in compliance with slfrs  subject to certain transition elections and exceptions disclosed in note 8 .
3 summary of significant accounting policies .
the principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below .
these policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented  unless otherwise stated .
31    basis of preparation .
the financial statements of the corporation have been prepared in accordance with sri lanka financial reporting standards ‘slfrs’ .
no adjustments have been made for inflationary factors affecting the financial statements .
the financial statements are presented in sri lankan rupees rounded to the nearest thousand .
the preparation of financial statements in conformity with slfrs requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates .
it also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the corporation’s accounting policies .
the areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity  or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in note 6 .
changes in new standards  amendments and interpretation issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 january 2012 and not early adopted .
32 currencies .
a functional and presentation currency .
items included in the financial statements of the corporation are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates .
the financial statements are presented in sri lankan rupees  which is the corporation’s functional currency .
b transactions and balances .
foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction .
foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at yearend exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement .
foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and equivalents are presented in the statement of comprehensive income within ‘finance income or cost’ .
all other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the statement of comprehensive income within ‘other losses gains’ .
33 property  plant and equipment .
land and buildings comprise transmission stations and head officers .
all the property  plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation .
historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items .
subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset  as appropriate  only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the corporation and the cost of the item can be measured reliably .
the carrying amount of replaced parts  are derecognized .
all other repairs and maintenance are charged to the statement of comprehensive income during the financial period in which they are incurred .
land is not depreciated .
depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straightline method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives  as follows .
table  1 – depreciation rates of ppe .
rates .
buildings .
computers .
furniture and fittings .
electronic equipment .
motor vehicles .
office equipment .
library stock .
tv sets .
other assets .
34 financial instruments .
a financial assets .
341 classification .
the corporation classifies its financial assets in the following categories .
the classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition .
loans and receivables .
loans and receivables are nonderivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market .
they are included in current assets as maturities are lower than 12 months after the end of the reporting period .
the corporation’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the balance sheet .
financial liabilities .
liabilities within the scope of ias 39 are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or other liabilities  as appropriate .
a financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires .
35 inventories .
inventories of the corporation consist of consumable stock .
stock held for the use of the corporation  not for sale .
therefore inventories are valued at their cost .
stock valuation is done on a firstinfirstout fifo basis .
36 leases .
the leases of property  plant and equipment when the corporation has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases .
in the past 2 years three 03 cars  six 06 vans were obtained on a finance lease  which effectively transfer the corporation substantially all the risk and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased items  are capitalized and disclosed as finance lease at their cash price and depreciated over the period the corporation is expected to benefit from the use of the leased assets .
the lease principal amount payable to the lessor bank of ceylon is shown as a noncurrent liability  current liability .
lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the outstanding balance of the liability .
the interest payable over the period 5 years of the lease is transferred to an interest in suspense account .
the interest element of the rental obligations pertaining to each financial year is charged to the income statement over the period of lease .
table 2 – the time analysis of lease payments .
the following table shows the finance lease obligation that falls due one year  more than one year .
less than 1 year .
more than i year .
interest .
capital .
lease creditor – bank of ceylon .
37 trade receivables .
371 provisions – trade receivables client debtor .
trade receivables are carried at anticipated realizable value .
a provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the corporation will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables .
significant financial difficulties of the debtor  probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganization and default payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired .
the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account  and the amount of the loss is recognized in the statement of comprehensive income within distribution cost .
when a trade receivable is uncollectible  it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivable .
subsequent recoveries of amounts previously writtenoff are against distribution cost in the income statement .
table 3 – the client debtors provision as at 31122012 .
provision as at 01012012 .
charge for the year 2012 .
provision as at 31122012 .
372 provisions – sundry debtor .
table 4 – the sundry debtors provision as at 31122012 .
provision as at 01012012 .
charges for the year 2012 .
provision as at 01012012 .
373 provisions – other receivables .
3731 employee loans .
employee loans constitute amounts granted to eligible employees under the following .
distress loan .
special loan .
transport loan .
housing loan .
other loan .
the provision for bad debts for employee loans has been made only for the outstanding amounts with respect to employees who are no longer in service either retired or resigned with sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
table 5 – the employee loan provision as at 31122012 .
provision as at 01012012 .
charge for the year 2012 .
write – off for the year 2012 .
provision as at 3112 2012 .
373 2 employee advances .
employee advances constitute amounts under the following categories .
advance for programme production .
advance for employees miscellaneous .
advance for foreign travel .
advance for room charges .
the provision for bad debts for employee advances has been made to reflect the amounts outstanding with respect to employees who are no longer in service either retired or resigned with sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
38 cash and cash equivalents .
in the statement of cash flows  cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand  bank current account balance .
in the statement of financial position  bank overdrafts are within borrowing in current liabilities .
39 trade payables  liabilities .
accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer .
if not  they are presented as noncurrent liabilities .
trade payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method .
310 current and deferred income tax .
the tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax .
tax is recognized in the income statement  except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity .
in this case  the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity  respectively .
the current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the provision of inland revenue act no 10 of 2006  subsequent amendments .
management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation .
it establishes provisions here appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities .
deferred income tax is recognized  using the liability method  on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements .
the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled .
the tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax .
in this case  the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity  respectively .
311 contingent liabilities .
provisions are recognized when the corporation has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events  it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation  and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made .
a total of 07 cases have been filed against the corporation .
this disclosure is made to be in compliance with slas 36 provisions  contingent liabilities  contingent assets contingent liabilities are disclosed in notes to the financial statements .
312 retirement benefit liabilities .
defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement  usually dependent on one or more factors such as age  years of service and compensation .
the present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of government bonds as no active market for highquality corporate bonds in sri lanka .
pastservice costs are recognized immediately in income  unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period  in this case  the pastservice costs are amortized on a straightline basis over the vesting period .
313 defined contribution plans .
all employees of the corporation are members of the employees’ provident fund epf and employees’ trust fund etf  to contribute 15 and 3 respectively of such employees’ basic salary or wages  cost of living and meal allowance non executive employees .
corporation’s contribution to the defined contribution plans are recognized as an expense in the income statement when incurrent .
314 grants .
314 – 1 local grants .
the grants have been amortized at the rate of 20 per annum .
314 – 2 foreign grants .
these equipments will give the corporation the editing to create 2d  3d animations .
315 revenue .
revenue of the corporation is accounted for on an accrual basis and interest income on investment is also recognized in the same basis .
revenue is measured at the value of the consideration receivable .
the corporation recognizes revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured when it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the corporation the primary source of revenue is derived from sale of airtime .
other sources of income recognized in the income statement are given as a note to the income statement .
316 accounting for expenditure .
expenditure of the corporation is accounted for on accrual basis .
charging all expenses incurred in the day to day operations of the business and in maintaining the property  plant  equipment in a state of efficiency .
317 cash flow statement .
the cash flow statement has been prepared using the indirect method .
cash and cash equivalents consists of cash in hand and bank current account balance .
318 events after the balance sheet date .
all material post balance sheet events have been considered and disclosed or adjusted  where applicable .
319 rupavahini social welfare fundtsunami .
the source of these funds was from the general public  in response to various campaigns carried out by the corporation aftermath the tsunami catastrophe  in the year 2004 the account balance is given in the table below .
table 6 – social welfare fund balance as at 31122012 .
balance as at 01012012 .
interest earned for the period .
fund balance at the end of the year 2012 .
the social welfare fund is an integrated part of statement of financial position .
4 intangible asset .
copyright fees paid .
copyright fees paid to acquire telecast rights of programmes either local or foreign  cost of produced programmes teledramas  motion pictures  films  etc that meet the triple criteria of being able to identify  control  existence of future economic benefits as defined in lkas 38 .
in order to be treated as such  there are three factors that must be recognized  such as the ability to control the detection and the potential economic benefits of the future the intangible assets should be amortized under the following policies .
table 7 – a the policy for amortization of acquired or procured programmes and inhouse produced programmes .
category .
amortization policy .
acquired or produced local teledramas and films .
if the number of runs are not exhausted as defined in the contract within the contract period then to recognize the balance amount capitalized as expenditure at the end of the contract .
acquired or produced local programmes other than local teledramas and films .
if the number of runs are not exhausted as defined in the contract within the contract period then to recognize the remaining capitalized amount as expenditure at the end of the contract .
acquired or produced foreign filmssoap operas .
if the number of runs are not exhausted as defined in the contract within the contract period then to recognize the balance capitalized as expenditure at the end of the contract .
acquired or produced foreign programmes other than foreign films soap operas .
if the number of runs are not exhausted as defined in the contract within the contract period then to recognize the remaining  capitalized amount as expenditure at the end of the contract .
teledramas produced in house to obtain 50 of the expenditure from the first run and to mortise the balance 50 in 10 years .
teledramas produced in house to obtain 50 of the expenditure from the first run and to mortise the balance 50 in 10 years .
acquired or produced foreign film and soap operas are to obtain 50 of the expenditure from the first and to mortise the balance 50 for 10 years is an equal amount .
acquired or produced foreign film and soap operas are to obtain 50 of the expenditure from the first and to mortise the balance 50 for 10 years is an equal amount .
table 7 – b copyright fee .
purchase of tele drama .
procurement of foreign programme .
inhouse produced tele drama .
local programme nottelecast .
wip local programme .
inhouse production others .
balance as at 01012010 .
balance as at 01012011 .
addition .
balance as at 01012012 .
investment income .
tables 8 – amounts of investment income in the year 2012 .
type of investment .
amount .
treasury bill bank of ceylon .
fixed deposits bank of ceylon .
smib fixed deposit state mortgage  investment bank .
state super trust fund .
special housing loan scheme state mortgage  investment bank .
savings account bank of ceylon .
total investment income .
9 related party disclosures .
the corporation carries out transactions in the ordinary course of its business with parties who are defined as related parties in sri lanka accounting standard 24 “related party disclosures”  the details of which are reported below .
no .
name .
designation .
nature of the related party transaction .
address .
chairman .
no related party transaction .
no 75852  susithapura .
malabe .
board member .
asstdirector ministry of education .
52  ariyadasa peiris mw .
nugegoda .
board member .
senior lecturer .
37  1st lane .
aruppola .
kandy .
board member .
director general .
ministry of finance  planning .
no related party transaction .
341  praja road .
madiwela .
kotte .
board member .
chairman .
sri lanka broadcasting corporation .
no related party transaction .
no255b11 torrington garden .
torrington avenue .
colombo 07 .
board member .
chairman .
national film corporation .
no 30  school avenue .
kalubowila .
chief executive officer .
no related party transaction .
“wanamalee” .
old road .
barawakumbuka .
deputy director general .
engineering .
no related party transaction .
24  sri sumangala road .
ratmalana .
deputy director general .
finance manager .
no related party transaction .
no 2005  sri rahula mawatha .
katubedda .
moratuwa .
deputy director general .
production service .
no related party transaction .
2951a  mahawatta road .
kottikawatta .
deputy director general .
programme .
no related party transaction .
71e ihalagama .
gampaha .
director .
administration .
no related party transaction .
125 mahawatta .
wewalduwa .
kalaniya .
director .
news  current affairs .
55  meegahawatta .
delgoda .
acting director .
marketing manager .
no related party transaction .
no534 bevilgamuwa .
pothuhara .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation notes to the financial statements .
rs’000 .
31 december 2012 .
31 december 2011 .
01 revenue .
sale of tv time – channel 1 .
sale of tv time – channel eye .
sale of tv time – contra deal .
nbt on sale of tv time .
total revenue .
02 other operating income .
production income .
investment income please refer table 8 .
transfer fees .
profit on disposal property plant  equipment .
rent from canteen .
departmental fines .
interest on loans to employees .
miscellaneous income .
amortization of foreign aid .
nonrefundable tender deposits .
registration fees .
sales of programme material .
registration fee – tv dealers .
utilization of sri lanka rupavahini corporation facilities foreign .
aibd training course income .
income from diploma course .
loan impairment gain .
sale of magazine .
commercial promotional income .
other charges  clients .
government grant .
total other operating income .
3 cost of sales .
31 educational programme expenses .
artiste fees .
refreshments .
makeup materials .
incidental expenses .
graphic material .
stage design .
video cassettes  tapes .
hire of transport facilities .
hire of equipment facilities .
hire of facilities theatre  audio .
hire of sound equipment .
electricity .
lodging .
still photographs .
travelling  subsistence .
purchase of copyproductiontv right .
premises .
special event .
channel eye .
artiste fees .
previewing  monitoring chargers .
refreshment .
hire of equipment transport .
hire of transport .
hire of sound equipment .
electricity .
incidental expenses .
travelling  subsistence .
still photographs .
procurement of programme material  foreign .
accommodation .
video cassettes  tapes .
stage design sets .
hire of facilities theatre  audio .
premises .
makeup materials .
educational program .
32 general programme expenses .
artists fees .
previewing  monitoring charges .
refreshment allowance .
purchase of copy production tv right .
stage  design  sets props .
makeup materials .
video cassettes   tapes .
graphic  animation materials .
still photographs .
hire of equipment facilities .
incidental expenses .
procurement programme materials  foreign .
travelling  subsistence .
special event .
lodging .
electricity .
hire of facilities theatre  audio .
hire of sound equipment .
hire of transport .
premises .
satellite cost .
ntv channel .
expenses for ntv channel block vote .
rent of antenna tower at sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
reimbursement of electricity charges sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
artist fees .
refreshments .
accommodation .
travelling  subsistence .
hire of transport facilities .
hire of equipment facilities .
hire of facilities theatre audio .
electricity .
video cassettes  tapes .
stage design  sets .
33 news programme expenses .
payments to news readers  editors .
news gathering  local .
news gathering  foreign .
incidental expenses .
satellite  related charges  local .
satellite  related charges  foreign .
abu’s fixed  variable charges .
current affairs block vote .
transport news vehicle .
web streaming service .
video cassettes   tapes .
refreshment allowances .
design  news sets .
artist fees .
hire of equipment facilities .
hire of sound equipment .
travelling  subsistence .
accommodation .
setsprops current affairs .
hire of transport facilities current affairs .
hire of facilities theatreaudiocurrent affairs .
still photographs current affairs .
electricity .
live streaming .
on demand video streaming .
special events .
34 commercial production expenses .
artist fees .
refreshment allowances .
stage  design setsprops .
hire of transport facilities .
hire of equipment facilities .
incidental expenses .
travelling  subsistence .
accommodation  premises .
hire of sound equipment .
video cassettes  tapes .
makeup materials .
stationery .
still photographs .
35 other production expenses .
salaries  other allowances .
for production staff .
salariesallowances – .
permanent staff .
salariesallowances – .
contract staff .
salariesallowances – .
relief staff .
overtime .
corporation share of epf .
corporation share of etf .
holiday pay .
weekend payment for executive .
hardshipaltitude heavy duty .
duty officersengineering fees .
incentive allowance .
meal allowance – non executive .
transport allowance .
enhancement medical leave .
bonus .
electricity – tx station .
electricity – head office 75 .
fuel for generator .
running expenses 75 .
rental for tx stations .
repairs  maintenance  equipment .
tax on foreign programmes .
commercial contra expenses .
frequency chargers .
leasing of satellite band with 9 mhz .
colombo – palali link for video transmission .
rental for fiber optic link .
hiring of third party infrastructure .
36 depreciation .
depreciation .
total cost of sales .
4 distribution expenses .
agency commission .
promotional expenses .
bad debts provision .
employee .
sundry .
clients .
distribution expenses .
5 administrative expenses .
member’s  remuneration .
salaries allowances – permanent staff .
salaries allowances – contract staff .
overtime .
corporation share of epf .
corporation share of etf .
holiday pay .
weekend payment for executive .
hardshipaltitude heavy duty .
duty officersengineering fees .
membership fees for professional executives .
contribution for pension  w  op .
incentive allowance .
meal allowance – non executive .
transport allowance .
enhancement medical leave .
incentive gratuity  compensation .
bonus .
staff welfare .
recreation .
uniform to staff .
premium – medical insurance scheme .
premium for accident  life insurance .
traveling  subsidence  local .
traveling  subsidence – mileage allowance .
traveling  subsidence  foreign .
incidental expenses – foreign travel .
corporation refreshment  entertainment .
rent  rates  taxes .
electricity  power .
telephone including rental .
security service .
postage .
printing  stationary .
newspapers  periodicals .
office requisites .
losses on disposal .
exchange losses .
sundry expenses .
advertisement – tender  recruitment .
compensation for court cases .
running expenses of motor vehicles .
hire of motor vehicles .
insurance – building  other assets .
license  insurance motor vehicles .
repairs  maintenance – building .
repairs  maintenance – garden .
repairs  maintenance – other expenses .
water .
computer requisites .
license fee for microsoft product  other expenses .
seminar  training programme  general .
anniversary celebration .
public addressing system charges rental .
repairs of motor vehicles .
publicity  propaganda .
training expenditure – internal .
survey  research expenses .
donation .
public relation .
national events .
expenses for elections  presidential .
abu training expenses .
subscription fees .
depreciation .
nation building tax .
retirement benefit obligation .
administrative expenses .
6 financial  other charges .
bank charges .
bank interest .
lease interest vehicle loan .
audit fees .
legal fees .
stamp duty .
financial  other write offs .
special levy  treasury .
financial  other charges .
7 taxation .
profit loss for the taxation .
depreciation .
interest paid .
corporation entertainment .
donations .
publicity  propaganda 25 .
commercial promotional expenses 25 .
contra expenses 50 .
profit  loss on disposal .
tax gain  loss .
anniversary celebration .
provisions for gratuity .
paid gratuity .
specific bad debts write off .
interest income .
other income .
grant for capital items .
capital allowances .
amortization of foreign aid .
business profit  loss .
interest income .
other income .
total statutory income .
35 from net profit allowable losses bf .
interest paid .
assessable income .
qualifying payments .
taxable income .
tax amount 28 .
slr 15 from income tax .
income tax liability .
deferred tax .
income tax over provision for the year 2010 .
income tax .
property  plant  equipment .
note .
balance as at 01012012 .
additions .
disposals .
balance as at 31122012 .
land .
building .
furniture  fittings .
plant  equipment .
office equipment .
electrical equipment .
tv sets .
library stocks .
loose tools  accessories .
computer .
other assets .
accounting software .
equipments for ntv .
motor vehicle .
musical instrument .
caravan equipment .
security equipment .
jica project .
total value of assets .
depreciation .
note .
balance as at 01012012 .
additions .
disposals .
balance as at 31122012 .
land .
building .
furniture  fittings .
plant  equipment .
equipment for ntv .
office equipment .
electrical equipment .
tv sets .
library stocks .
loose tools  accessories .
computer .
other assets .
accounting software .
motor vehicle .
musical instrument .
caravan equipment .
security equipment .
jica equipment received under the project .
total depreciation .
8 net book value of assets .
note .
balance as at 01 01 2012 .
balance as at 31 12 2012 .
at cost .
depreciation .
total carrying amount of property  plant  equipment .
work in progress .
note .
balance as at 01 01 2012 .
additions .
transfers .
balance as at 31 12 2012 .
work in progress .
note .
balance as at 01012012 .
balance as at 31122012 .
total carrying amount of property  plant  equipment .
work – in progress .
total .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
notes to the financial statements .
note .
9 intangible assets .
purchase of teledrama .
inhouse production teledrama .
inhouse production  others .
programme material foreign .
local programmes not telecast .
local programmes workin progress .
intangible assets .
10 held to maturity financial assets .
fixed deposits bank of ceylon .
fixed deposit state mortgage   investment progress .
11 stocks .
printing  stationary .
spare parts – eng 1 .
spare parts – eng 11 .
graphics material .
makeup material .
building material .
motor vehicle material .
diesel stocks .
office requisites .
exuding printing  stationary .
miscellaneous items .
cassettes  tapes bank in main stores .
electrical consumables .
cassettes  tapes in the library .
recorded cassettes .
loose tools .
tv sets .
printer .
magazine .
stocks .
12 trade receivables .
client debtors .
trade receivables .
13 loans  other receivables .
131 treasury bills .
treasury bills .
132 debtors  employee .
tv loan  others .
distress loan .
festival advance .
transport loan .
special loan .
textile loan .
other loan .
housing loan .
housing loan prepayments .
debtors  employee .
loan  other receivable .
14 other receivables .
141 advance  deposits .
state mortgage  investment bank housing loan fund .
goods in transit .
advance to suppliers – local purchase institute .
advance to suppliers – for programme production .
advance to employees – miscellaneous .
advance to employees  programme .
advance to artistes .
deposits for services  refundable .
travelling advance  local .
advance for room charges .
advance on foreign purchase – spares parts .
advance to contractors .
advance to employees  purchase .
travelling advance  foreign .
advance – social welfare fund .
stamp imp – administration division .
withholding tax wht deducted at source .
tax – economic service charge esc .
advance  deposits .
142 sundry debtors .
recoverable from retired resigned employees .
income receivables .
from inland revenue  other .
staff debtors  sundries .
insurance corporation medical scheme .
coin adjustment .
lease interest suspense ac .
sundry debtors .
less impairment of sundry debtors .
other receivables .
15 cash  bank balance  deposits as call .
boc saving ac .
cash in hand .
bank balance boc corporate branch .
bank balance boc torrington branch .
cash  bank balance  deposits as call .
16 government grant for capital items .
government grant for capital items .
government grant for capital items .
17 retirement benefit obligation .
retirement benefit obligation  gratuity .
retirement benefit obligation  gratuity .
18 trade payables .
creditors client .
agency commission payable .
client transfer  refunds .
trade payables .
other financial liabilities .
accrued expenses .
unclaimed salaries  wages .
retention  contract .
security – contract  suppliers .
creditors control .
cancelled cheques  corporate .
artistes fee payable cancelled cheques .
retention – sri lanka rupavahini corporation employees .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
prereciepts .
tender deposits refundable .
salaries payable .
fund for rupavahini museum .
cir stamp duty .
ministry of state .
provision for fine on gratuity .
miscellaneous payable – suwa sahana .
provision for dividend to the government .
other financial liabilities .
20 other payables .
retention with holding tax .
provision for income tax .
vat control ac .
retention with holding turnover tax .
pate tax .
other payables .
21 bank overdraft – boc corporate branch .
bank overdraft – boc corporate branch .
bank overdraft – boc corporate branch .
22 finance leases .
221 finance leases payable current portion .
222 finance leases payable noncurrent portion .
finance leases .
february 2014 .
the chairman .
sri lanka rupavahini corporation .
report of the auditor general on the financial statements of the sri lanka rupavahini corporation for the year ended 31 december 2012 in terms of section 14 2 c of the finance act no 38 of 1971 .
the audit of financial statements of the sri lanka rupavahini corporation for the year ended 31 december 2012 comprising the statement of financial position as at 31 december 2012 and the comprehensive income statement  statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information  was carried out under my direction in pursuance of provisions in article 154 1 of the constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka read in conjunction with section 131 of the finance act  no 38 of 1971 and section 163 of the sri lanka rupavahini corporation act  no 6 of 1982 .
my comments and observations which i consider should be published with the annual report of the corporation in terms of section 142c of the finance act appear in this report .
a detailed report in terms of section 137a of the finance act was issued to the chairman of the corporation on 15 august 2013 .
12 management’s responsibility for the financial statements .
management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with sri lanka accounting standards and for such internal control as the management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatements  whether due to fraud or error .
13 auditor’s responsibility .
my responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit .
i conducted my audit in accordance with sri lanka auditing standards .
those standards require that i comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatements an audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements .
the procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment  including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements  whether due to fraud or error .
an audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management  as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements .
subsections 3 and 4 of the section 13 of the finance act  no 38 of 1971 give discretionary powers to the auditor general to determine the scope and extent of the audit .
i believe that the audit evidence i have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my qualified audit opinion .
14 basis for qualified audit opinion my opinion is qualified based on the matters described in paragraph 22 of this report .
2 financial statements .
21 qualified opinion .
in my opinion  except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 22 of this report  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the sri lanka rupavahini corporation as at 31 december 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with sri lanka accounting standards .
22 comments on financial statements .
221 sri lanka accounting standards .
223 accounts receivables and payables .
the following observations are made .
a client debtors .
ii the client debtors are generated at the time of supplying the air time on credit basis by the corporation .
c grant and settlement of advances .
the following observations are made .
224 lack of evidence for audit .
a the evidence indicated against the following items appearing in the financial statements had not been furnished to audit .
item .
value .
documentary evidence not made available .
i debtors .
classification schedules in terms of new accounting standards .
ii cash flows generated from operating activities .
details of calculations .
iii impairment gain .
schedulesdetails of calculations .
iv programs  publicity and purchase expenses .
schedulesdetails of calculations .
v investments – lanka puwath .
ownership certificates .
vi workinprogress .
schedules .
vii information on frauds .
cannot be calculated .
information requested for audit .
viii land of the corporation and lands of transmitting stations rates value .
legal evidence title deeds  vesting documents  gazette notifications .
total .
b the criteria adopted in deciding on the price per film purchased by the corporation under the contra agreements had not been furnished to audit as such those could not be satisfactorily vouched .
225 noncompliance with laws  rules  regulations and management decisions .
noncompliance with the following laws  rules  regulations and management decisions were observed .
reference to laws  rules  regulations and management decisions .
a financial regulations of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka and public enterprises circular ped12 of 02 june 2003 .
b letter no mtr12005 of secretary to the ministry of finance dated 28 march 2003 .
c section 651 of public enterprises circular no ped12 of 02 june 2003 .
d public enterprises circular no ped50 of 28 july 2008 and public administration circular no2299 of 08 october 1999 .
decrease of channel eye income during the year by more than 75 per cent or rs637 390 000 as compared with the preceding year had been the main reason for this decrease .
32 analytical financial review .
33  legal action instituted against  by the institute .
eleven cases had been filed against the corporation by external parties and 05 cases had been filed by the employees of the corporation as at 31 december 2012 .
two cases had been finalized during the year under review .
34 unusual increases in expenses .
the following observations are made .
a the following item of expenditure for the year under review as compared with the expenditure for the preceding year had increased unusually .
expenditure item expenses .
expenditure .
increase over the previous year .
per centage of increase over the previous year .
anniversary celebration .
deyata kirula .
artiste’s fees .
loading charges .
sundry expenses .
b the increase in the sundry expenses of the ranavwiru real star program in the year 2012 as compared with year 2011 ranged between 58 per cent to 183 per cent .
4 operating review .
41 management inefficiencies .
the following observations are made .
5 accountability and good governance .
51 preparation of financial statements .
even though financial statements should be presented to the audior general within 60 days after the close of the financial year in terms of the public enterprises circular no ped12 of 02 june 2003  the financial statements for the year under review had been presented by the corporation only on 15 may 2013  that is  after a delay of 76 days .
52 action plan .
the following observations are made .
53 internal audit .
the cadre of the internal audit unit of the corporation comprised a permanent internal auditor and 06 other staff .
twenty two internal audit queries in the first half of the year and 4 internal audit queries in the second half of the year had been issued .
54 strategic maketing plan .
a strategic marketing plan designed for marketing promotion profitable for the corporation though the identification of its strengths  weaknesses  opportunities and threats had not been prepared for the year 2012 .
55 audit committee .
even though the audit committee should meet at least once in three months in terms of the public enterprises circular no ped31 of 01 july 2005  only two meetings had been held in the year 2012 .
56 budgetary control .
income had not been estimated properly and as such increase of income of certain items against the budget ranging from 25 per cent to 44 per cent as well as decrease in the income  ranging from 33 per cent to 1062 per cent were observed .
similarly  increase in expenditure by 117 per cent as well as decrease in expenditure ranging from 14 per cent to 65 per cent due to the failure to prepare expenditure estimates properly were observed .
as such as the budget for the year 2012 had not been made use of as an effective instrument of management control .
6systems and controls .
deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the chairman of the corporation from time to time .
special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control .
a debtors  creditors control .
b budgetary control .
c staff loans control .
d advances settlement control .
e contra agreements .
f collection of air time income .
g accounting .
acting auditor general .
home .
projects .
completed projects .
2010 .
completed job description .
job no .
job description .
estimate cost .
rs mn .
rehabilitation of puluganawi irrigation scheme .
dismantled and installed the gates at new position .
fabrication installation of 04 nos radial gates to kankaniyar kulam for peace project .
downloads .
application forms .
application form .
specimen application form for unskilled labourers .
procurement examination of bidding document quataion form .
procurement examination of bidding document shopping document .
pre qualification application for accreditation of supplies .
contact us .
department of government factory .
kolonnawa .
sri lanka .
telephone .
fax .
email .
web url .
subject .
inquiry .
contact name .
telephone .
email .
enter security code in following text box .
unit .
name .
designation .
email .
telephone no .
ext no .
factory engineer .
deputy factory engineer .
acct .
chief accountant .
acct .
accountant .
payment .
acct .
accountant .
stores .
admin .
deputy manager .
admin .
works .
works manager .
works .
deputy works manager .
works .
deputy works manager .
works .
deputy works manager .
works .
deputy works manager .
works .
vacant .
deputy works manager .
works .
vacant .
deputy works manager .
works .
deputy works manager .
works .
senior mechanical superiendent project .
mechanical superintendent .
logistic .
manager logistic .
logistic training iso .
deputy managertraining .
logisticsupply .
supply engineer .
logistic .
senior mechanical superiendent .
quality .
logistic .
senior mechanical superiendent .
it secu .
logisticsupply .
human resource assistant .
logisticsupply .
senior mechanical superiendent .
supply .
logisticsupply .
mechanical superintendent .
supply .
logisticsupply .
mechanical superintendent .
supply .
logisticprogress .
progress and development assistant .
logistictic .
legal assistant .
marketing .
managermarketing .
marketing .
senior mechanical superiendent .
marketing .
marketing .
mechanical superintendent .
marketing .
marketing .
mechanical superintendent .
marketing .
deduru oya .
fabrication and  installation of 2 nos water management gates and 3 nos radial gates for deduru oya project .
faqs .
how to get work and services  products  training  procurement  payments  and expenditure of customer jobs related information? .
factory engineer issue a circular to all government and semi government institutions  departments  ministries etc stating what type of products  works and services that the government factory intents to  offer during the each year .
this circular is available in the marketing branch and those who are interested may contact marketing manager or can be down loaded from the following url  httpwwwgovtfactorygovlk .
further details and clarifications could be obtained either from marketing manager or works manager or from assistant works managers .
written requests or inquiries are to be addressed to factory engineer either with specifications and drawings or specific user needs  requirements and finishes etc .
once you forward your inquiry reply is given either telephone or on line or by post  whichever way you to convenience .
prices for standard products can be obtained from marketing manager .
works and services related information can be obtained from works manager .
design and  fabrication related information can be obtained from assistant works managerdpb .
training related information can be obtained from training engineer .
procurement related information can be obtained either from manager organization or supply engineer .
materials  plant  machinery  equipments  work and services required by government factory for provision of customer works  products and services are published annually under the registration of suppliers .
chief accountant or accountant payment can be contacted in relation to payments and expenditure of the customer jobs .
informationa regarding the new recruites can be obtained from the information management officer .
the vision of the government factory is to develop the customer services  both internal and external  to the highest quality in keeping with global trends .
mission .
provision of mechanical engineering products  works  services  solutions and workshop training in mechanical engineering for tradesmen  technicians  undergraduates  craft apprentices and mechanical engineers .
products .
hospital furniture .
health sector has been our major customer more than four decades and originally provided mostly steel furniture with painted finish for most of the hospitals .
there are about 30 odd steel items in the standard product list  variety of beds  trolleys  cupboards  wheel chairs  baby cots  and various types of stands etc .
some products are made out of stainless steel with better finish .
electroplating techniques has also been used for better finish of some products .
powder coating of hospital furniture has been introduced since last year for increasing demand for better surface finish and durability from health sector .
product development is always encouraged and our engineers are ready for meeting customer needs in the health sector .
giving consultancy services for preparation of specifications and product development to cater local needs and requirement of general public .
order products .
household tools furniture .
order products .
laboratory furniture .
we have more than thirty years experience in making and supplying laboratory furniture especially for universities .
tables  cupboards  stools and other timber furniture are produced on customer request .
prices of these items vary with the customers requirements and not included to standard product price list .
order products .
office equipment .
furniture .
products .
products classification .
water management gates and accessories .
hospital furniture .
office equipment .
furniture .
laboratory furniture .
equipment .
road maintenance equipment .
household tools and furniture .
signage .
powder coated products .
downloads .
recruitment scheme .
recruitment scheme .
page 2 .
monday  05 august 2013 0938 .
all pages .
products .
powder coated products .
powder coating  technology has been introduced from 2009 for steel products  especially hospital furniture .
powder coating gives the products high quality and durability than the color coating .
presently the poder coating is done only for the steel products .
powder coating can be applied to aluminum  steel  cast iron and chromeplated metals .
following products or parts of the products can also be powder coated .
home appliances .
automobile and .
bicycle parts .
powder coating use to the anticorrosion protection for pipeline  valves fittings .
reinforcing steel .
wires and wire products .
fences and fencing parts .
garden products and toold .
home .
downloads .
price list of products .
price list .
price list of standard production items .
price list of standard production items .
price list of water management equipment .
order products .
road maintenance equipment .
road maintenance equipment .
products  tools and equipments for roads maintenance are manufactured on customer request .
tar boiler of 60 and 120 gallon .
tar patching sets .
wheel barrows .
gulley grating frame .
cover of standard sizes .
manhole frame covers rectangular and circular standard sizes .
these are made out of mild steel sheets  rods  angles  galvanized iron pipe  and cast iron using casting  welding  and metal fabrication processes .
order products .
signage .
engraving .
embossing .
drawing .
embossing .
stamping .
are used to make the signage .
the name boards which were manufactured by us is listed below .
digital name boards .
screen print name boards .
brass .
aluminum or .
stainless steel .
name boards made by using the letters .
plastic name boards .
reflecting roadside signage .
more than that manufacturing of official signs  remembaral name boards and official signs are manufactured .
sitemap .
about us .
overview .
our team .
organization structure .
key divisions and locations .
human resources strength .
citizan charter .
order products .
works and services .
water management gates repairs .
repairs to steel and wooden roofs .
installation steel and cast iron gates and fencing .
heavy and light fabrications .
ferrous castings .
creating office rooms using aluminum and wooden partitioning .
light engineering .
procurement .
advanced procurement notices .
general procurement notices .
procurement awards .
procurement of goods and services .
training .
projects .
ongoing projects .
completed projects .
faqs .
statistics .
action plan of current projects .
progress review of current projects .
progress reports .
downloads .
application forms .
circulars .
price list of products .
contact us .
sitemap .
home .
order products .
water management gates and accessories .
water management gates and accessories .
water management gates are used for irrigation system .
materials used for manufacturing these gates are of cast iron  mild steel  structural steel  stainless steel  and timber depending on the customer needs .
the types of gates .
cast iron sluice gates are of circular opening ranging from 6 inches  to 30 inches  in three inches intervals and used to regulate water levels in cannels .
these gates consists of various parts such as  housing  seat  slide  base plate  wedge block  brass or gun metal nut  operating handle or wheel  threaded spindle  extension bars  anchor bolts and nuts etc cast iron sluice gates are one of our standard products .
radial gates are made out of using structural steel and stainless steels 316 l grade .
these radial gates are used for the following reasons .
maintenance of water elevations in canals and spillways .
increased storage capacity for reservoirs .
diversion of water for irrigation .
flow control preserving wide clear waterways .
other areas requiring economical water control .
stop logs are used for level control in open channels .
flap gates use for barrages .
emergency gates are used in reservoirs .
timber gates are made out of  kubuk wood .
sizes are ranging from 2’x 2’ to up ward .
accessories of gates .
accessories of cast iron gates are available for sale .
pedestals and operating mechanisms required for variety of load conditions of gates are also provided .
finishing of gates .
painting is the main finishing method for all types of gates depending on the salinity of water the different painting techniques are used .
for corrosion prevention marine paints are used .
galvanizing also is used instead of painting on the request of customers .
ministry of health  nutrition and indigenous medicine .
sri lanka .
english .
sinhala .
tamil .
ministry of health .
home .
staff access .
hospitals .
government hospitals .
private hospitals .
summary .
clinics .
gallery .
health bulletin .
telephone directory .
contact .
about us .
history .
our vision .
hon minister .
hon deputy minister .
top officials .
gov health institutions .
hospitals .
clinics .
pdhs .
rdhs .
others .
summary .
govermant health manpower .
gis maps .
your wellbeing .
healthy lifestyle .
maternal and child health .
immunisation .
oral health .
our services .
hospital based care .
public health services .
indigenous medicine .
projects .
project progress .
clinic survey .
evaluation  provincial ministry .
evaluation  line ministry .
shsdp website .
innovation research projects .
fellowships .
travel grants .
tracking and evaluation .
procurement .
vacancy .
projects in the pipeline .
public notices .
health alerts .
employment opportunities .
tenders and procurement .
general notices .
gazette notifications .
research opportunities .
online applications .
donations counter .
travelers guide .
health services at ports .
quarantine information .
immunization .
publications .
accident .
emergency care manual guidelines .
list of publications .
human resource profile .
policies  strategies and plans .
health master plan .
published policies .
policies for public opinion .
annual health bulletin .
sri lanka national health accounts 2013 .
health statistics .
health performance monitoring indicators .
health posters .
accident .
emergency care manual guidelines .
accident .
emergency care manual guidelines .
ministry of health  nutrition and indigenous medicine .
suwasiripaya  no 38 .
revbaddegama wimalawansa thero mawatha .
colombo 10 .
sri lanka .
telephonegeneral .
about us .
history .
our vision .
hon minister .
hon deputy minister .
top officials .
gis maps .
web systems .
hrm system .
web mail .
specialist transfers .
public notices .
general notices .
health alerts .
tenders and procurement .
employment opportunities .
gazette notice .
online applications .
donations counter .
research opportunities .
hospitals .
govermant hospitals .
private hospitals .
staff access .
administration .
training .
circulars .
schedule calendar .
research .
staff notices .
phone directory .
download .
projects .
visit previous website .
previous website .
copy right .
last update .
ministry of health  nutrition and indigenous medicine .
sri lanka .
english .
sinhala .
tamil .
ministry of health .
home .
staff access .
hospitals .
government hospitals .
private hospitals .
summary .
clinics .
gallery .
health bulletin .
telephone directory .
contact .
about us .
history .
our vision .
hon minister .
hon deputy minister .
top officials .
gov health institutions .
hospitals .
clinics .
pdhs .
rdhs .
others .
summary .
govt health manpower .
gis maps .
your wellbeing .
healthy lifestyle .
maternal and child health .
immunisation .
oral health .
our services .
hospital based care .
public health services .
indigenous medicine .
projects .
project progress .
clinic survey .
evaluation  provincial ministry .
evaluation  line ministry .
shsdp website .
innovation research projects .
fellowships .
travel grants .
tracking and evaluation .
procurement .
vacancy .
projects in the future .
public notices .
health alerts .
employment opportunities .
tenders and procurement .
general notices .
gazette notifications .
research opportunities .
online applications .
donations counter .
travelers guide .
health services at ports .
quarantine information .
immunization .
publications .
accident .
emergency care manual guidelines .
list of publications .
human resource profile .
policies  strategies and plans .
health master plan .
published policies .
policies for public opinion .
annual health bulletin .
sri lanka national health accounts 2013 .
health statistics .
health performance monitoring indicators .
accident .
emergency care manual guidelines .
ministry of health  nutrition and indigenous medicine .
suwasiripaya  no 38  rev .
baddegama wimalawansa thero mawatha .
colombo 10 .
sri lanka .
telephonegeneral .
about us .
history .
our vision .
hon minister .
hon deputy minister .
top officials .
govt health manpower .
gis maps .
web systems .
hrm system .
web mail .
specialist transfers .
public notices .
general notices .
health alerts .
tenders and procurement .
employment opportunities .
gazette notice .
online applications .
donations counter .
research opportunities .
hospitals .
govermant hospitals .
private hospitals .
staff access .
administration .
training .
circulars .
schedule calendar .
research .
staff notices .
phone directory .
download .
projects .
visit previous website .
previous website .
ministry of health  nutrition and indigenous medicine .
last update .
ministry of health  nutrition and indigenous medicine .
sri lanka .
english .
sinhala .
tamil .
ministry of health .
home .
staff access .
hospitals .
government hospitals .
private hospitals .
summary .
clinics .
gallery .
health bulletin .
telephone directory .
contact .
about us .
history .
our vision .
hon minister .
hon deputy minister .
top officials .
gov health institutions .
hospitals .
clinics .
pdhs .
rdhs .
others .
summary .
govt health manpower .
gis maps .
your wellbeing .
healthy lifestyle .
maternal and child health .
immunisation .
oral health .
our services .
hospital based care .
public health services .
indigenous medicine .
projects .
project progress .
clinic survey .
evaluation  provincial ministry .
evaluation  line ministry .
shsdp website .
innovation research projects .
fellowships .
travel grants .
tracking and evaluation .
procurement .
vacancy .
projects in the pipeline .
public notices .
health alerts .
employment	opportunities .
tenders and procurement .
general notices .
gazette notifications .
research opportunities .
online applications .
donations counter .
travelers guide .
health services at ports .
quarantine information .
immunization .
publications .
list of publications .
human resource profile .
policies  strategies and plans .
health master plan .
published policies .
policies for public opinion .
annual health bulletin .
sri lanka national health accounts 2013 .
health statistics .
health performance monitoring indicators .
accident .
emergency care manual guidelines .
sorry  this page is under construction .
ministry of health  nutrition and indigenous medicine .
suwasiripaya  no 38 .
revbaddegama wimalawansa thero mawatha .
colombo 10 .
sri lanka .
telephonegeneral .
about us .
history .
our vision .
hon minister .
hon deputy minister .
top officials .
gis maps .
web systems .
hrm system .
web mail .
specialist transfers .
public notices .
general notices .
health alerts .
tenders and procurement .
employment opportunities .
gazette notice .
online applications .
donations counter .
research opportunities .
hospitals .
govermant hospitals .
private hospitals .
staff access .
administration .
training .
circulars .
schedule calendar .
research .
staff notices .
phone directory .
download .
projects .
visit previous website .
previous website .
copy right .
ministry of health  nutrition and indigenous medicine .
last update .
ministry of health  nutrition and indigenous medicine .
sri lanka .
english .
sinhala .
tamil .
ministry of health .
home .
staff access .
hospitals .
government hospitals .
private hospitals .
summary .
clinics .
gallery .
health bulletin .
telephone directory .
contact .
about us .
history .
our vision .
hon minister .
hon deputy minister .
top officials .
gov health institutions .
hospitals .
clinics .
pdhs .
rdhs .
others .
summary .
govt health manpower .
gis maps .
your wellbeing .
healthy lifestyle .
maternal and child health .
immunisation .
oral health .
our services .
hospital based care .
public health services .
indigenous medicine .
projects .
project progress .
clinic survey .
evaluation  provincial ministry .
evaluation  line ministry .
shsdp website .
innovation research projects .
fellowships .
travel grants .
tracking and evaluation .
procurement .
vacancy .
projects in the pipeline .
public notices .
health alerts .
employment	opportunities .
tenders and procurement .
general notices .
gazette notifications .
research opportunities .
online applications .
donations counter .
travelers guide .
health services at ports .
quarantine information .
immunization .
publications .
list of publications .
human resource profile .
policies  strategies and plans .
health master plan .
published policies .
policies for public opinion .
annual health bulletin .
sri lanka national health accounts 2013 .
health statistics .
health performance monitoring indicators .
accident .
emergency care manual guidelines .
annual health bulletin .
annual health bulletin .
ministry of health  nutrition and indigenous medicine .
suwasiripaya  no 38 .
revbaddegama wimalawansa thero mawatha .
colombo 10 .
sri lanka .
telephonegeneral .
about us .
history .
our vision .
hon minister .
hon deputy minister .
top officials .
gis maps .
web systems .
hrm system .
web mail .
specialist transfers .
public notices .
general notices .
health alerts .
tenders and procurement .
employment opportunities .
gazette notice .
online applications .
donations counter .
research opportunities .
hospitals .
govermant hospitals .
private hospitals .
staff access .
administration .
training .
circulars .
schedule calendar .
research .
staff notices .
phone directory .
download .
projects .
visit previous website .
previous website .
copy right .
ministry of health  nutrition and indigenous medicine .
last update .
select .
all island .
ampara .
anuradapura .
badulla .
batticaloa .
colombo .
galle .
gampaha .
hambanthota .
jaffna .
kalutara .
kandy .
kegalle .
kilinochchi .
kurunegala .
mannar .
matale .
matara .
monaragala .
mullaithivu .
nuwaraeliya .
polonnaruwa .
puttalam .
ratnapura .
trincomalee .
vavuniya .
please select .
child clinic .
mediacla clinic .
other clinic .
sri lankan government hospitals .
our vission .
a healthier nation that contributes to its economic  social  mental and spiritual development .
our mission .
to contribute to social and economic development of sri lanka by achieving the highest attainable health status through promotive  preventive  curative and rehabilitative services of high quality made available and accessible to people of sri lanka .
